MODEL INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT  SEQ CHAPTER \h \r 1 INTRODUCTION

This agreement can be used for both officers and directors of the
corporation.  In some cases, a director will serve as a nominee of one
or a group of investors (e.g., an individual venture capitalist serving
as a nominee of a venture capital fund).  Some venture capital funds
will request that the fund, and not just their director representative,
be covered by the indemnification agreement.  Often that takes the form
of indemnification rights covering liability arising by virtue of
"corporate status" (where the investor is acting as an agent of the
corporation).  See Fasciana v. Electronic Data Systems, No. 19753 (Del.
Ch. Feb. 27, 2003).  To the extent a venture capital fund seeks
indemnification for the fund itself, we have provided bracketed language
in Section 1(d) for the draftsperson to consider.  The working group has
not taken a position as to whether investor indemnification is "market."

Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“Section 145”)
is the statutory authority for indemnification of directors, officers,
employees and agents of the corporation.  Section 145(a) permits (but
does not require) indemnification of expenses (including attorneys’
fees) as well as judgments and amounts paid in settlement in third-party
actions (i.e., actions not brought by or in the right of the
corporation) if the applicable standard is met.  Section 145(b) permits
(but does not require) indemnification of expenses (including
attorneys’ fees) but not judgments and amounts paid in settlement in
derivative actions (i.e., actions brought by or in the right of the
corporation) if the applicable standard is met.  Thus, Section 145 draws
a basic distinction between third-party and derivative actions.  Section
145(c) requires indemnification of expenses (including attorneys’
fees) if the indemnitee is successful on the merits or otherwise in a
proceeding referred to in Section 145(a) or (b).  Section 145(d) sets
forth requirements for determining whether indemnification is permitted
under Section 145(a) or (b).  Section 145(e) permits advancement of
expenses before final disposition of a proceeding subject to certain
conditions.  Section 145(f) provides that the statutory rights and
procedures regarding indemnification are not exclusive, thus permitting
indemnification under bylaws, agreements and other circumstances beyond
the limits specified in Section 145.  Section 145(g) allows a
corporation to obtain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
(“D&O insurance”).  Sections 145(h) through (k) address various
other aspects of indemnification, including provisions relating to
survivorship of the obligations of the indemnifying corporation,
survivorship of rights to indemnification upon ceasing to be a director,
officer, employee or agent and the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Delaware Court of Chancery over indemnification proceedings.  

Section 102(b)(7) of the Delaware General Corporation Law is the other
relevant statutory authority relating to the protection of directors
from monetary liability.  Section 102(b)(7) allows inclusion of a
provision in the certificate of incorporation that eliminates or limits
(i.e., caps) the personal liability of directors to the corporation or
its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty.  The
statute, however, prohibits limitations on director liability (i) for
breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, (ii) for acts or omissions not
in good faith or involving intentional misconduct or knowing violation
of law, (iii) for willful or negligent conduct in paying dividends or
repurchasing stock out of other than lawfully available funds, or (iv)
for any transaction from which a director derives an improper personal
benefit.  In essence, Section 102(b)(7) allows a corporation to protect
its directors from monetary liability for duty of care violations 

As noted above, Section 145(f) provides that statutory indemnification
rights are not exclusive of indemnification rights that may be provided
by a bylaw provision, agreement or otherwise.  As discussed below,
although Section 145(f) could be read broadly to allow a corporation to
grant by contract indemnification rights beyond those permitted by
Section 145, cases and commentators suggest that contractual
indemnification rights may be held unenforceable if they violate other
statutes (including Section 145), court decisions or public policy.  As
a result, the enforceability of contracts that purport to grant
indemnification rights beyond those permitted by Section 145 is at best
unclear.  (For further discussion, see comment under Section 2 below.)

An indemnification agreement may serve several purposes.  First, and
most importantly, it may provide more secure protection than a provision
in a certificate of incorporation or bylaw because it cannot be amended
without the approval of the indemnitee.  Second, it can be used to make
mandatory indemnification that is permissive under Section 145, to
specify various procedures and presumptions that make indemnification
more favorable to the indemnitee than is provided by Section 145 and to
perhaps provide for indemnification rights that go beyond those that are
expressly provided by Section 145.  While such provisions could also be
included in the Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws, an agreement
permits different rights to be granted to specific directors, officers,
employees and agents, rather than in a one size fits all approach.

Some companies choose to provide mandatory indemnification for directors
(i.e., the company is required to indemnify a director if the applicable
conditions are met) and discretionary indemnification for officers
(i.e., indemnification is at the discretion of the company even if the
applicable conditions are met).  With respect to indemnification of
directors, as discussed in the comment under Section 6(b), there may be
no disinterested directors to consider approval of discretionary
indemnification for directors.  Accordingly, absent mandatory
indemnification a board decision to indemnify itself may not be subject
to the court deference under the business judgment rule.   With respect
to indemnification of officers, there may be situations (e.g.,
termination of employment, sexual harassment) where mandatory
indemnification of officers would expose the Company to the possibility
of funding the defense of litigation either brought by the Company or in
which the Company wants to distance itself from the activities of the
officer in question.  Care should be taken to anticipate such
situations.

Also note that if the company decides to indemnify directors but not
officers, the indemnification agreement should make it clear that an
employee director is indemnified only in his or her capacity as a
director.

Section 145(g) specifically authorizes a corporation to obtain D&O
insurance for directors and officers for liability asserted against them
in such capacity or arising out of such status whether or not the
corporation has the power to indemnify such persons against such
liability under Section 145.  

D&O insurance coverage is important for several reasons.  First, even
though indemnification may be permitted under Section 145, the
corporation may be unwilling or unable to indemnify the individual.  The
former situation may arise after a change in corporate control where the
corporation is unwilling to indemnify the individual.  This may be the
case, for example, if the director is the subject of litigation
resulting from efforts to prevent the change in control.  Alternative, a
corporation may be unable to provide indemnification because it is
insolvent.  Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, for example,
indemnification claims by directors or officers would generally be
treated as unsecured claims payable only to the extent that other
unsecured claims are payable as part of an approved plan of
reorganization.

Second, D&O insurance may insure against liabilities where
indemnification is not allowed under Section 145.  This occurs most
frequently in the context of derivative actions and securities law
actions.  In particular, Section 145(g) permits a corporation to obtain
insurance for (i) judgments or amounts paid in settlement in derivative
actions, and (ii) for expenses incurred when a director has been
adjudged liable in some respects, even though indemnification under such
circumstances would not be allowed under Section 145(b).  In addition, a
D&O insurance policy may insure against liabilities under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”) and the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the “1934 Act”), even though the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has taken the position that
indemnification for liabilities under Section 11 of the 1933 Act are
against public policy and courts have held that indemnification for
violations of the 1933 and the 1934 Act are contrary to the public
policy in certain circumstances.  (See comment under Section 1(a) of the
Agreement.)  As a result, D&O insurance may be particularly important
for publicly held companies where there is greater risk of liability for
derivative actions and securities law claims.  

However, D&O insurance policies generally contain a number of
qualifications and limitations that narrow the scope of coverage.  In
particular, D&O insurance coverage is limited by applicable insurance
law as well as public policy considerations.  In addition, D&O insurance
polices generally exclude certain conduct from coverage, including
short-swing profit liability under Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act,
unauthorized remuneration, personal profit to which the insured
individual is not legally entitled, claims arising out of contests for
corporate control and claims brought by corporations against their own
directors and officers.

INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT

THIS INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made and entered
into as of [___________], 200[_] between [corporation], a Delaware
corporation (the “Company”), and [name] (“Indemnitee”).

WITNESSETH THAT:

WHEREAS, highly competent persons have become more reluctant to serve
corporations as [directors] [officers] or in other capacities unless
they are provided with adequate protection through insurance or adequate
indemnification against inordinate risks of claims and actions against
them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of the
corporation;

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Board”) has
determined that, in order to attract and retain qualified individuals,
the Company will attempt to maintain on an ongoing basis, at its sole
expense, liability insurance to protect persons serving the Company and
its subsidiaries from certain liabilities.  Although the furnishing of
such insurance has been a customary and widespread practice among United
States-based corporations and other business enterprises, the Company
believes that, given current market conditions and trends, such
insurance may be available to it in the future only at higher premiums
and with more exclusions.  At the same time, directors, officers, and
other persons in service to corporations or business enterprises are
being increasingly subjected to expensive and time-consuming litigation
relating to, among other things, matters that traditionally would have
been brought only against the Company or business enterprise itself. 
[The [Bylaws] [and] [Certificate of Incorporation] of the Company
require indemnification of the officers and directors of the Company.] 
Indemnitee may also be entitled to indemnification pursuant to the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (“DGCL”).  The
[Bylaws] [and] [Certificate of Incorporation] and the DGCL expressly
provide that the indemnification provisions set forth therein are not
exclusive, and thereby contemplate that contracts may be entered into
between the Company and members of the Board, officers and other persons
with respect to indemnification;

WHEREAS, the uncertainties relating to such insurance and to
indemnification have increased the difficulty of attracting and
retaining such persons;

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the increased difficulty in
attracting and retaining such persons is detrimental to the best
interests of the Company's stockholders and that the Company should act
to assure such persons that there will be increased certainty of such
protection in the future;

WHEREAS, it is reasonable, prudent and necessary for the Company
contractually to obligate itself to indemnify, and to advance expenses
on behalf of, such persons to the fullest extent permitted by applicable
law so that they will serve or continue to serve the Company free from
undue concern that they will not be so indemnified; 

WHEREAS, this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the
[Bylaws] [and] [Certificate of Incorporation] of the Company and any
resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, and shall not be deemed a
substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of
Indemnitee thereunder; and

WHEREAS, Indemnitee does not regard the protection available under the
Company's [Bylaws] [and] [Certificate of Incorporation] and insurance as
adequate in the present circumstances, and may not be willing to serve
as an officer or director without adequate protection, and the Company
desires Indemnitee to serve in such capacity.  Indemnitee is willing to
serve, continue to serve and to take on additional service for or on
behalf of the Company on the condition that he be so indemnified; and

WHEREAS, Indemnitee has certain rights to indemnification and/or
insurance provided by [name of fund/sponsor] which Indemnitee and [name
of fund/sponsor] intend to be secondary to the primary obligation of the
Company to indemnify Indemnitee as provided herein, with the Company’s
acknowledgement and agreement to the foregoing being a material
condition to Indemnitee’s willingness to serve on the Board.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of Indemnitee’s agreement to serve as
an [officer] [director] from and after the date hereof, the parties
hereto agree as follows:

Indemnity of Indemnitee.  The Company hereby agrees to hold harmless and
indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law, as such may
be amended from time to time.  In furtherance of the foregoing
indemnification, and without limiting the generality thereof.

[Comment:  Sections 1 and 2 of the agreement contain the basic
indemnification obligations of the agreement.  Section 1 provides for
indemnification that essentially tracks Section 145, while Section 2
provides for broader indemnification (e.g., by providing for
indemnification of judgments, penalties and amounts paid in settlement
of derivative actions).  The overlap in coverage of the two sections is
intentional.  Indemnification under Section 1 is designed to be
available even if a Delaware court does not allow indemnification under
Section 2 in a particular instance.  

Section 1 essentially requires indemnification to the fullest extent
permitted or required under Section 145.  Thus, Section 1 makes
mandatory indemnification that is permissive under Sections 145(a) and
(b).  Note that Section 1 does not make mandatory a determination under
Section 145(d) that the applicable standard of conduct has been
satisfied.  Therefore, even though mandatory, indemnification under
Sections 1(a) and (b) is subject to a determination under Section 145(d)
and Section 6(b) that the applicable standard has been satisfied.]

Proceedings Other Than Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company. 
Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided
in this Section l(a) if, by reason of his Corporate Status (as
hereinafter defined), the Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a
party to or participant in any Proceeding (as hereinafter defined) other
than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company.  Pursuant to this
Section 1(a), Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses (as
hereinafter defined), judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in
settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him, or on his behalf, in
connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein,
if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner the Indemnitee
reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the
Company, and with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable
cause to believe the Indemnitee’s conduct was unlawful.

[Comment:  Section 145(a) permits indemnification of officers,
directors, employees or agents for attorneys’ fees and other expenses
as well as for judgments or amounts paid in settlement in civil cases. 
As noted above, Section 145(a) applies only to third-party actions and
not to derivative actions.  The person seeking indemnification must have
acted in good faith and in a manner reasonably believed to be in the
best interests of, or not opposed to the best interests of, the
corporation in connection with the claim made against such person.  In
criminal cases, the indemnitee may be indemnified for fines and costs
provided that, in addition to the foregoing standard of conduct, the
indemnitee must not have had reasonable cause to believe that
indemnitee’s conduct was unlawful.  Section 1(a) of the Agreement
essentially tracks Section 145(a), except that it makes indemnification
mandatory rather than permissive.  

The distinction between third-party and derivative actions is critical
to understanding the statutory framework.  A derivative action is an
action brought by a stockholder on behalf of the corporation to redress
a wrong done by someone to the corporation.  Therefore, the derivative
action must be based upon an alleged injury to the corporation which
caused harm to the corporation itself, and to the stockholder only
derivatively through their ownership of stock in the corporation.  In
some cases, there can be uncertainty as to whether a particular action
constitutes a derivative action (i.e., to address a breach of a duty to
the corporation) or a third-party action (i.e., a direct harm to the
third party plaintiff).

Proceedings that allege breach of fiduciary duties of officers and
directors to the corporation often are derivative actions, and actions
against officers and directors for violations of federal securities laws
(e.g., actions alleging a violation of Section 11 of the 1933 Act in
connection with a public offering of securities or Rule 10b-5 in
connection with an offer or sale of securities) would normally be
third-party actions.  Therefore, absent public policy concerns, an
action against a director or officer alleging federal securities law
liability would fall within the relatively favorable third-party
indemnification provisions of Section 145(a).  As noted above, Section
145(a) permits indemnity even if the director or officer loses the case,
so long as the indemnitee meets the applicable standard following a
determination pursuant to Section 145(d).

The SEC has taken the position, however, that even if a director or
officer meets the relevant standard of conduct for indemnification under
corporate law, corporate indemnification for liabilities arising under
the 1933 Act is against public policy.  In addition, courts have held
that indemnification for violations of either the 1933 Act or the 1934
Act is contrary to public policy, at least for violations based upon
culpable behavior greater than ordinary negligence.

These public policy limitations may apply to a variety of sources of
liability under the 1933 Act and 1934 Act, including (i) Section 12 of
the 1933 Act for offers and sales of securities, (ii) Rule 10b-5 of the
1934 Act for violation of antifraud provisions, (iii) Section 16(b) of
the 1934 Act for short–swing trading profits, (iv) Section 15 of the
1933 Act and Section 20 of the 1934 Act for liability of control persons
and Section 18 of the 1934 Act for misleading statements.  Thus, even
though otherwise permissible under Section 145(a), indemnification may
be contrary to the public policy underlying the federal securities laws
and therefore unenforceable.  These potential limitations on indemnity
underscore the importance of having separate D&O Insurance coverage.]  

Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company.  Indemnitee shall be
entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this Section 1(b)
if, by reason of his Corporate Status, the Indemnitee is, or is
threatened to be made, a party to or participant in any Proceeding
brought by or in the right of the Company.  Pursuant to this Section
1(b), Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and
reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee, or on the Indemnitee’s behalf,
in connection with such Proceeding if the Indemnitee acted in good faith
and in a manner the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not
opposed to the best interests of the Company; provided, however, if
applicable law so provides, no indemnification against such Expenses
shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter in such
Proceeding as to which Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable
to the Company unless and to the extent that the Court of Chancery of
the State of Delaware shall determine that such indemnification may be
made.

[Comment:  Section 145(b) permits indemnification of directors,
officers, employees and agents for attorneys’ fees and other expenses
in derivative actions but not for judgments, fines or amounts paid in
settlement of such actions.  However, in a proceeding where the
individual is adjudged to be liable to the corporation, Section 145(b)
does not permit indemnification even for expenses unless and to the
extent that an appropriate court determines that, in view of all the
circumstances, the individual is fairly and reasonably entitled to
indemnification for such expenses.  Thus, indemnification for derivative
actions is significantly more limited than for third-party actions.  The
rationale for this distinction is that any liability in a derivative
action is to make the corporation (on whose behalf the action was
brought) whole for harm it suffered, and the corporation would not
receive any benefit by indemnifying an individual against such
liability.  In effect, the corporation would be returning funds to the
person liable to pay them.  As with Section 1(a), Section 1(b)
essentially tracks Section 145(b), except that it makes indemnification
mandatory rather than permissible.

Note that by eliminating or limiting a director’s exposure to
financial liability for breaches of certain classes of fiduciary duties,
Section 102(b)(7) may reduce exposure for claims that would otherwise
result in derivative actions and thereby overcome some of the
limitations on indemnification in Section 145(b).]

Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly
Successful.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to
the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his Corporate Status, a
party to and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any
Proceeding, he shall be indemnified to the maximum extent permitted by
law, as such may be amended from time to time, against all Expenses
actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection
therewith.  If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding
but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but
less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company
shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably
incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with each successfully
resolved claim, issue or matter.  For purposes of this Section and
without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in
such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be
deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.

[Comment:  Section 145(c) requires the corporation to indemnify a
director or officer for attorney’s fees and other expenses actually
and reasonably incurred in connection with a proceeding referred to in
Sections 145(a) or (b) to the extent that the indemnitee is
“successful on the merits or otherwise.”  In other words, an
indemnitee is entitled to indemnification for reasonable expenses to the
extent successful on the merits, even if the indemnitee is successful
for “technical” reasons.  Section 1(c) essentially tracks Section
145(c), except that it explicitly addresses the situation where the
indemnitee is partially successful by providing that an indemnitee is
entitled to indemnification for expenses incurred with respect to
successfully resolved claims.]

[(d)	Indemnification of Appointing Stockholder.  [If (i) Indemnitee is
or was affiliated with one or more venture capital funds that has
invested in the Company (an “Appointing Stockholder”), and (ii) the
Appointing Stockholder is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a
participant in any Proceeding, and (iii) the Appointing Stockholder's
involvement in the Proceeding (A) arises primarily out of, or relates
to, any action taken by the Company that was approved by the Company’s
Board, and (B) arises out of facts or circumstances that are the same or
substantially similar to the facts and circumstances that form the basis
of claims that have been, could have been or could be brought against
the Indemnitee in a Proceeding, regardless of whether the legal basis of
the claims against the Indemnitee and the Appointing Stockholder are the
same or similar, then the Appointing Stockholder shall be entitled to
all of the indemnification rights and remedies under this Agreement
pursuant to this Agreement as if the Appointing Stockholder were the
Indemnitee. ]

[If (i) Indemnitee is or was affiliated with one or more venture capital
funds that has invested in the Company (an “Appointing
Stockholder”), (ii) the Appointing Stockholder is, or is threatened to
be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding, and (iii) the
Appointing Stockholder’s involvement in the Proceeding results from
any claim based on the Indemnitee’s service to the Company as a
director or other fiduciary of the Company, the Appointing Stockholder
will be entitled to indemnification hereunder for Expenses to the same
extent as Indemnitee, and the terms of this Agreement as they relate to
procedures for indemnification of Indemnitee and advancement of Expenses
shall apply to any such indemnification of Appointing Stockholder.]   

[If (i) Indemnitee is or was affiliated with one or more venture capital
funds that has invested in the Company (an “Appointing
Stockholder”), and (ii) the Appointing Stockholder is, or is
threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding
relating to or arising by reason of Appointing Stockholder's position as
a stockholder of, or lender to, the Company, or Appointing Stockholder's
appointment of or affiliation with Indemnitee or any other director,
including, without limitation, any alleged misappropriation of a Company
asset or corporate opportunity, any claim of misappropriation or
infringement of intellectual property relating to the Company, any
alleged false or misleading statement or omission made by the Company
(or on its behalf) or its employees or agents, or any allegation of
inappropriate control or influence over the Company or its Board
members, officers, equity holders or debt holders, then the Appointing
Stockholder will be entitled to indemnification hereunder for Expenses
to the same extent as Indemnitee, and the terms of this Agreement as
they relate to procedures for indemnification of Indemnitee and
advancement of Expenses shall apply to any such indemnification of
Appointing Stockholder.] 

[The rights provided to the Appointing Stockholder under this Section 2
shall (i) be suspended during any period during which the Appointing
Stockholder does not have a representative on the Company’s Board, and
(ii) terminate on an initial public offering of the Company’s Common
Stock; provided, however, that in the event of any such suspension or
termination, the Appointing Stockholder’s rights to indemnification
will not be suspended or terminated with respect to any Proceeding based
in whole or in part on facts and circumstances occurring at any time
prior to such suspension or termination regardless of whether the
Proceeding arises before or after such suspension or termination. The
Company and Indemnitee agree that the Appointing Stockholder is an
express third party beneficiary of the terms of this Section 1(d).]

[The above language presents three alternatives, with the third
providing the broadest indemnification of the venture capital fund.]

Additional Indemnity.  In addition to, and without regard to any
limitations on, the indemnification provided for in Section 1 of this
Agreement, the Company shall and hereby does indemnify and hold harmless
Indemnitee against all Expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts
paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his
behalf if, by reason of his Corporate Status, he is, or is threatened to
be made, a party to or participant in any Proceeding (including a
Proceeding by or in the right of the Company), including, without
limitation, all liability arising out of the negligence or active or
passive wrongdoing of Indemnitee.  The only limitation that shall exist
upon the Company’s obligations pursuant to this Agreement shall be
that the Company shall not be obligated to make any payment to
Indemnitee that is finally determined (under the procedures, and subject
to the presumptions, set forth in Sections 6 and 7 hereof) to be
unlawful.

[Comment:  Section 2 provides for additional indemnification beyond the
scope of indemnification provided by Section 1.  For example, Section 2
provides for mandatory indemnification of judgments, penalties, fines
and amounts paid in settlement of derivative actions.  The only
limitation is that no indemnification is required to the extent that it
is finally determined to be unlawful in accordance with procedures and
presumptions set forth in the agreement.  

The scope of additional protection provided by Section 2 is unclear.  As
noted above, although Section 145(f) expressly permits contractual
indemnification rights beyond the statutory rights provided for in
Section 145, the enforceability of such contractual rights may be
limited by statute, court decision and public policy.

Contractual indemnification rights beyond Section 145 can be classified
into different categories that may be helpful in assessing their
enforceability.  Some contractual rights make indemnification which is
permissive under Section 145 mandatory (e.g., a provision requiring
indemnification relating to third-party actions to the extent permitted
under Section 145(a)).  Other contractual rights attempt to clarify or
supplement statutory rights without significantly altering those rights
(e.g., a procedural requirement that a corporation advance expenses
within a certain period of time following a proper undertaking from the
indemnitee or defining “independent legal counsel” for purposes of
making a determination under Section 145(d)).  Still other contractual
rights specify policies, procedures and presumptions that have the
purpose or effect of enhancing indemnification rights beyond the
provisions of Section 145 (e.g., a presumption that an individual has
met the applicable standard of care or a provision that a determination
that the applicable standard of care is deemed to be met if no such
determination is made within a specified period).  Finally, some
contractual indemnification rights appear to be inconsistent with the
limits on indemnification specified in Section 145 (e.g., a provision
indemnifying for judgments in derivative actions even if the indemnitee
has engaged in clearly culpable behavior).

One commentator has noted:  “There is no case which spells out the
precise perimeters of the extent to which an indemnification agreement .
. . may go in providing indemnification rights . . . under Section
145(f) . . .  Although there is no case law on point, it is probable
that a Delaware court would not allow indemnification under a . . .
contract when the proposed indemnification is prohibited by law or
public policy. . . . Nevertheless, Section 145(f) does provide support
for wide-ranging agreements which broaden or enlarge upon
indemnification rights granted in the various other subsections of
Section 145, although provisions in such a[n] . . . agreement which are
contrary to limitations or prohibitions set forth in other subsections
may be held unenforceable if they violate other statutes, court
decisions or public policies. . . . For example, because of the
limitations of Section 145(b), a corporation may not be able to
indemnify under the authority of Section 145(f) for judgments or amounts
paid in settlements in derivative suits. . . . On the other hand,
Section 145(f) may authorize the adoption of various procedures and
presumptions to make the process of indemnification more favorable to
the indemnitee without violating that statute.”  See Balotti and
Finkelstein, Delaware Law of Corporation and Business Organizations, §
4.16 at 4-345 to 4-350.

Sometimes a contract providing for indemnification beyond Section 145
will itself contain limitations on the scope of additional
indemnification.  These limitations might include prohibitions on
indemnification for (i) violations of insider trading laws such as
Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act, (ii) conduct that is determined to be
knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest or to constitute willful
misconduct, (iii) actions brought by the corporation, (iv) actions
brought by the indemnitee without board approval, and (v) actions
relating to proxy contests in opposition to the board.  See Section 9
below.]

Contribution.

[Comment:  The provisions regarding contribution are primarily intended
to provide an alternative means of protecting individuals from liability
for some types of federal securities law violations where
indemnification is unenforceable for public policy reasons.  For
example, Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act explicitly recognizes
contribution in cases where one or more persons are or may be subject to
the same liability under Section 11, even though the SEC takes the
position that indemnification for Section 11 violations is contrary to
public policy.]  

Whether or not the indemnification provided in Sections 1 and 2 hereof
is available, in respect of any threatened, pending or completed action,
suit or proceeding in which the Company is jointly liable with
Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action, suit or proceeding),
the Company shall pay, in the first instance, the entire amount of any
judgment or settlement of such action, suit or proceeding without
requiring Indemnitee to contribute to such payment and the Company
hereby waives and relinquishes any right of contribution it may have
against Indemnitee.  The Company shall not enter into any settlement of
any action, suit or proceeding in which the Company is jointly liable
with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action, suit or
proceeding) unless such settlement provides for a full and final release
of all claims asserted against Indemnitee.

[Comment:  Section 3(a), in effect, provides that where the corporation
and the individual are jointly liable (or if joined, would be), the
corporation shall contribute 100% of the liability, and the individual
would not be required to contribute anything.  Section 3(a) also
prohibits the corporation from entering into any settlement that does
not completely release the individual.]

Without diminishing or impairing the obligations of the Company set
forth in the preceding subparagraph, if, for any reason, Indemnitee
shall elect or be required to pay all or any portion of any judgment or
settlement in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or
proceeding in which the Company is jointly liable with Indemnitee (or
would be if joined in such action, suit or proceeding), the Company
shall contribute to the amount of Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts
paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred and paid or payable
by Indemnitee in proportion to the relative benefits received by the
Company and all officers, directors or employees of the Company, other
than Indemnitee, who are jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if
joined in such action, suit or proceeding), on the one hand, and
Indemnitee, on the other hand, from the transaction or events from which
such action, suit or proceeding arose; provided, however, that the
proportion determined on the basis of relative benefit may, to the
extent necessary to conform to law, be further adjusted by reference to
the relative fault of the Company and all officers, directors or
employees of the Company other than Indemnitee who are jointly liable
with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action, suit or
proceeding), on the one hand, and Indemnitee, on the other hand, in
connection with the transaction or events that resulted in such
expenses, judgments, fines or settlement amounts, as well as any other
equitable considerations which applicable law may require to be
considered.  The relative fault of the Company and all officers,
directors or employees of the Company, other than Indemnitee, who are
jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such action,
suit or proceeding), on the one hand, and Indemnitee, on the other hand,
shall be determined by reference to, among other things, the degree to
which their actions were motivated by intent to gain personal profit or
advantage, the degree to which their liability is primary or secondary
and the degree to which their conduct is active or passive.

[Comment:  Section 3(b) provides an alternative method of allocating the
amount contributed by the corporation and the individual in the event
that the method of allocation in Section 3(a) (i.e., 100% payment by the
corporation) is not enforceable.  In particular, Section 3(b) provides
for allocation based on the relative benefits received from the
transaction giving rise to liability, and if required to conform to law,
the relative fault of the parties.]

The Company hereby agrees to fully indemnify and hold Indemnitee
harmless from any claims of contribution which may be brought by
officers, directors, or employees of the Company, other than Indemnitee,
who may be jointly liable with Indemnitee.

[Comment:  Section 3(c) attempts to indemnify the indemnitee against
contribution sought from other third parties.]

To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the
indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to
Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Company, in lieu of
indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount incurred by
Indemnitee, whether for judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes,
amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and/or for Expenses, in
connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this
Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light
of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (i)
the relative benefits received by the Company and Indemnitee as a result
of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such Proceeding
and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Company (and its directors,
officers, employees and agents) and Indemnitee in connection with such
event(s) and/or transaction(s).

[Comment:  Section 3(d) provides for contribution by the Company even if
the Company is not held jointly liable based on the relative benefit to
the Company of the conduct of the indemnitee giving rise to the loss or
expenses incurred by the indemnitee and /or the relative fault of the
Company and the indemnitee in connection with the matter in question.]

Indemnification for Expenses of a Witness.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason
of his Corporate Status, a witness, or is made (or asked) to respond to
discovery requests, in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a
party, he shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and
reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith.

[Comment:  Section 4 indemnifies individuals for costs and expenses in
serving as a witness in any proceeding relating to such person’s
service to the corporation.]

Advancement of Expenses.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, the Company shall advance all Expenses incurred by or on
behalf of Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding by reason of
Indemnitee’s Corporate Status within thirty (30) days after the
receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from Indemnitee
requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to
or after final disposition of such Proceeding.  Such statement or
statements shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee
and shall include or be preceded or accompanied by a written undertaking
by or on behalf of Indemnitee to repay any Expenses advanced if it shall
ultimately be determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be
indemnified against such Expenses.  Any advances and undertakings to
repay pursuant to this Section 5 shall be unsecured and interest free. 

[Comment:  As noted above, Section 145(e) provides for the advancement
of attorney’s fees and other expenses to officers and directors in
connection with any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative
proceeding.  Section 145(e) conditions any advance upon receipt of an
undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such
amount if it is ultimately determined that such individual is not
entitled to be indemnified by the corporation.

Section 5 is modeled after Section 145(e), except that it makes the
corporation’s duty to advance expenses mandatory rather than
permissive.  Section 5 also supplements Section 145(e) in various
respects.  Section 5 requires payment within 30 days after receipt of a
request for advancement (provided the request includes a statement of
the expenses and an undertaking to repay any advance expenses if it is
determined that the indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification
against such expenses).]

Procedures and Presumptions for Determination of Entitlement to
Indemnification.  It is the intent of this Agreement to secure for
Indemnitee rights of indemnity that are as favorable as may be permitted
under the DGCL and public policy of the State of Delaware.  Accordingly,
the parties agree that the following procedures and presumptions shall
apply in the event of any question as to whether Indemnitee is entitled
to indemnification under this Agreement:

[Comment:  Section 6 specifies policies and procedures to be applied in
determining whether an individual is entitled to indemnification under
the Agreement.  As with other provisions of the agreement, these
policies and procedures are not specifically authorized by Section 145. 
As a result, the rights and procedures specified in Section 6 may be
unenforceable.  See the comment under Section 2 of the Agreement above. 
Note, however, that unlike indemnification agreements customarily
entered into in financings (e.g., between the issuer and underwriters in
an underwritten public offering), this Agreement (and most
indemnification agreements) do not delineate defense procedures.]

To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit
to the Company a written request, including therein or therewith such
documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee
and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent
Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification.  The Secretary of the Company
shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification,
advise the Board in writing that Indemnitee has requested
indemnification.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any failure of
Indemnitee to provide such a request to the Company, or to provide such
a request in a timely fashion, shall not relieve the Company of any
liability that it may have to Indemnitee unless, and to the extent that,
such failure actually and materially prejudices the interests of the
Company. 

Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to the
first sentence of Section 6(a) hereof, a determination with respect to
Indemnitee’s entitlement thereto shall be made in the specific case by
one of the following four methods, which shall be at the election of the
Board (1) by a majority vote of the disinterested directors, even though
less than a quorum, (2) by a committee of disinterested directors
designated by a majority vote of the disinterested directors, even
though less than a quorum, (3) if there are no disinterested directors
or if the disinterested directors so direct, by independent legal
counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be
delivered to the Indemnitee, or (4) if so directed by the Board, by the
stockholders of the Company.  For purposes hereof, disinterested
directors are those members of the Board who are not parties to the
action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought
by Indemnitee.

[Comment:  As noted above, Section 145(e) provides that indemnification
under Sections 145(a) and (b) must be authorized on a case-by-case basis
(unless ordered by a court) in accordance with a statutorily mandated
decision making process.  The determination that must be made in each
case is whether indemnification is proper in the circumstances because
the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth
Section 145(a) or (b).  Such determination may be made (i) by a majority
vote of the directors who are not parties to the proceeding, (ii) by a
committee of such directors, (iii) by independent legal counsel in a
written opinion or (iv) by the stockholders.

There are a number of practical problems in making a determination
pursuant to Section 145(d).  First, many actions that give rise to
indemnification claims will be brought against all directors and
therefore preclude a determination by majority vote of disinterested
directors.  One solution might be to appoint additional disinterested
directors to make a determination, although this course of action may
present its own difficulties.  Second, many corporations and directors
will be reluctant to use the alternative of seeking stockholder
approval, particularly for publicly held corporations where the approval
process would be difficult and widely publicized.  Third, the term
“independent legal counsel” is not defined in Section 145 or
applicable case law, and even if a well-established definition existed,
a number of issues would arise in rendering a required opinion should
experienced counsel agree to consider doing so.

Section 6(b) allows the board to select the method of determination. 
Some agreements for public companies provide that independent counsel
make the determination following a change in control (presumably on the
theory that directors and stockholders after a change in control may be
less inclined to act impartially) and allow the company to select the
method of determination otherwise.  Other agreements purport to vest
this authority in the Indemnitee, but such a provision could be
challenged as an unlawful delegation of the board’s responsibility to
manage the business and affairs of the corporation under Section 141(a)
of the DGCL.  

For a public company where it is desired to provide that following a
change of control the indemnification determination would be made by
independent counsel, an example of a typical “change of control”
definition follows:

__.__.A “Change in Control” shall be deemed to occur upon the
earliest to occur after the date of this Agreement of any of the
following events:

	(i)  Acquisition of Stock by Third Party.  Any Person (as defined
below) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner (as defined below), directly
or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing [fifteen
percent (15%)] or more of the combined voting power of the Company's
then outstanding securities;

	(ii)  Change in Board.  During any period of two (2) consecutive years
(not including any period prior to the execution of this Agreement),
individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board,
and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who
has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction
described in Sections __(a)(i), __(a)(iii) or __(a)(iv)) whose election
by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders
was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then
still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period
or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved,
cease for any reason to constitute a least a majority of the members of
the Board;

	(iii)  Corporate Transactions.  The effective date of a merger or
consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than a merger
or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than
fifty one percent (51%) of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such
merger or consolidation and with the power to elect at least a majority
of the Board or other governing body of such surviving entity;

	(iv)  Liquidation.  The approval by the stockholders of the Company of
a complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or
disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's
assets; and

	(v)  Other Events.  There occurs any other event of a nature that would
be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of
Regulation 14A (or a response to any similar item on any similar
schedule or form) promulgated under the Exchange Act (as defined below),
whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting
requirement.

For purposes of this Section __(a), the following terms shall have the
following meanings:

	(A)	“Exchange Act” shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.

	(B)	“Person” shall have the meaning as set forth in Sections 13(d)
and 14(d) of the Exchange Act; provided, however, that Person shall
exclude (i) the Company, (ii) any trustee or other fiduciary holding
securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company and (iii) any
corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the
Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of
stock of the Company.  

	(C)	“Beneficial Owner” shall have the meaning given to such term in
Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; provided, however, that Beneficial
Owner shall exclude any Person otherwise becoming a Beneficial Owner by
reason of the stockholders of the Company approving a merger of the
Company with another entity.]

If the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by
Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 6(b) hereof, the Independent
Counsel shall be selected as provided in this Section 6(c).  The
Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board.  Indemnitee may,
within ten (10) days after such written notice of selection shall have
been given, deliver to the Company a written objection to such
selection; provided, however, that such objection may be asserted only
on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the
requirements of “Independent Counsel” as defined in Section 13 of
this Agreement, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the
factual basis of such assertion.  Absent a proper and timely objection,
the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel.  If a written
objection is made and substantiated, the Independent Counsel selected
may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until such objection is
withdrawn or a court has determined that such objection is without
merit.  If, within twenty (20) days after submission by Indemnitee of a
written request for indemnification pursuant to Section 6(a) hereof, no
Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, either
the Company or Indemnitee may petition the Court of Chancery of the
State of Delaware or other court of competent jurisdiction for
resolution of any objection which shall have been made by the Indemnitee
to the Company’s selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the
appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the court or
by such other person as the court shall designate, and the person with
respect to whom all objections are so resolved or the person so
appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under Section 6(b) hereof. 
The Company shall pay any and all reasonable fees and expenses of
Independent Counsel incurred by such Independent Counsel in connection
with acting pursuant to Section 6(b) hereof, and the Company shall pay
all reasonable fees and expenses incident to the procedures of this
Section 6(c), regardless of the manner in which such Independent Counsel
was selected or appointed.

[Comment:  Sections 6(c) through (g) specify procedures and presumptions
that apply in making a determination of entitlement to indemnification. 
Section 6(c) gives the Board the right to select independent legal
counsel, subject to an objection procedure.  Some public company
agreements vest the ability to select the Independent Counsel in the
Indemnitee after a change of control; but such a provision could be
challenged as an unlawful delegation of the board’s responsibility to
manage the business and affairs of the corporation under Section 141(a)
of the DGCL.  Section 6(d) below creates a presumption that the
indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, allocates the burden of proof
to the party seeking to overcome the presumption and specifies an
applicable standard of proof.  Section 6(e), among other things, creates
a presumption that the indemnitee acted in accordance with the standard
of behavior required for indemnification, allocates the burden of proof
to the party seeking to overcome the presumption, specifies the
applicable standard of proof and specifies circumstances under which the
indemnitee is deemed to have acted in good faith.  Section 6(f) below
provides for a determination of entitlement if no determination is made
by the decision-maker within 60 days after a request for determination
(plus a 30 day extension right) subject to certain conditions.  Section
6(g) below requires the indemnitee to cooperate with the person or
persons making the determination, requires such person or persons to act
reasonably and in good faith and requires the corporation to pay certain
costs associated with making the determination.

In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification
hereunder, the person or persons or entity making such determination
shall presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this
Agreement.  Anyone seeking to overcome this presumption shall have the
burden of proof and the burden of persuasion by clear and convincing
evidence.  Neither the failure of the Company (including by its
directors or independent legal counsel) to have made a determination
prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that
indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has
met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by
the Company (including by its directors or independent legal counsel)
that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall
be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has
not met the applicable standard of conduct.

[Comment:  Indemnification agreements may be subject to review by state
securities law administrators if the corporation’s securities are
registered or qualified in their state.  For example, the California
Department of Corporations has objected to shifting the burden of proof
as provided in this Section 6(d).  In one instance, a corporation was
required to renegotiate indemnification agreements with its directors to
eliminate a similar provision before qualifying an issuance of
securities in California.]

Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee’s
action is based on the records or books of account of the Enterprise (as
hereinafter defined), including financial statements, or on information
supplied to Indemnitee by the officers of the Enterprise in the course
of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Enterprise or
on information or records given or reports made to the Enterprise by an
independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other
expert selected with reasonable care by the Enterprise.  In addition,
the knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any director,
officer, agent or employee of the Enterprise shall not be imputed to
Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification
under this Agreement.  Whether or not the foregoing provisions of this
Section 6(e) are satisfied, it shall in any event be presumed that
Indemnitee has at all times acted in good faith and in a manner he
reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the
Company.  Anyone seeking to overcome this presumption shall have the
burden of proof and the burden of persuasion by clear and convincing
evidence.

If the person, persons or entity empowered or selected under Section 6
to determine whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification shall not
have made a determination within sixty (60) days after receipt by the
Company of the request therefor, the requisite determination of
entitlement to indemnification shall be deemed to have been made and
Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification absent (i) a
misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a
material fact necessary to make Indemnitee’s statement not materially
misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii)
a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law; provided,
however, that such sixty (60) day period may be extended for a
reasonable time, not to exceed an additional thirty (30) days, if the
person, persons or entity making such determination with respect to
entitlement to indemnification in good faith requires such additional
time to obtain or evaluate documentation and/or information relating
thereto; and provided further, that the foregoing provisions of this
Section 6(f) shall not apply if the determination of entitlement to
indemnification is to be made by the stockholders pursuant to Section
6(b) of this Agreement and if (A) within fifteen (15) days after receipt
by the Company of the request for such determination, the Board or the
Disinterested Directors, if appropriate, resolve to submit such
determination to the stockholders for their consideration at an annual
meeting thereof to be held within seventy five (75) days after such
receipt and such determination is made thereat, or (B) a special meeting
of stockholders is called within fifteen (15) days after such receipt
for the purpose of making such determination, such meeting is held for
such purpose within sixty (60) days after having been so called and such
determination is made thereat.

Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person, persons or entity making
such determination with respect to Indemnitee’s entitlement to
indemnification, including providing to such person, persons or entity
upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which
is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is
reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such
determination.  Any Independent Counsel, member of the Board or
stockholder of the Company shall act reasonably and in good faith in
making a determination regarding the Indemnitee’s entitlement to
indemnification under this Agreement.  Any costs or expenses (including
attorneys’ fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so
cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination
shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to
Indemnitee’s entitlement to indemnification) and the Company hereby
indemnifies and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom.

The Company acknowledges that a settlement or other disposition short of
final judgment may be successful if it permits a party to avoid expense,
delay, distraction, disruption and uncertainty.  In the event that any
action, claim or proceeding to which Indemnitee is a party is resolved
in any manner other than by adverse judgment against Indemnitee
(including, without limitation, settlement of such action, claim or
proceeding with or without payment of money or other consideration) it
shall be presumed that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or
otherwise in such action, suit or proceeding.  Anyone seeking to
overcome this presumption shall have the burden of proof and the burden
of persuasion by clear and convincing evidence.

[Comment:  Section 6(h) creates a presumption that any resolution of a
claim other than by adverse judgment against the Indemnitee (including a
settlement, regardless of whether money is paid) constitutes being
“successful on the merits or otherwise” for purposes of Section
145(c).  Section 6(h) also allocates the burden of proof to the party
seeking to overcome the presumption and specifies the standard of proof
in overcoming the presumption.  If enforceable, this provision is
particularly helpful because it would allow for mandatory
indemnification pursuant to Section 145(c).]

The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter
therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of
nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise
expressly provided in this Agreement) of itself adversely affect the
right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that
Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably
believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company
or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had
reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.

Remedies of Indemnitee.

In the event that (i) a determination is made pursuant to Section 6 of
this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under
this Agreement, (ii) advancement of Expenses is not timely made pursuant
to Section 5 of this Agreement, (iii) no determination of entitlement to
indemnification is made pursuant to Section 6(b) of this Agreement
within ninety (90) days after receipt by the Company of the request for
indemnification, (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to
this Agreement within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a
written request therefor, or (v) payment of indemnification is not made
within ten (10) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee
is entitled to indemnification or such determination is deemed to have
been made pursuant to Section 6 of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be
entitled to an adjudication in an appropriate court of the State of
Delaware, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction, of
Indemnitee’s entitlement to such indemnification.  Indemnitee shall
commence such proceeding seeking an adjudication within one hundred
eighty (180) days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the
right to commence such proceeding pursuant to this Section 7(a).  The
Company shall not oppose Indemnitee’s right to seek any such
adjudication.

[Comment:  Section 7(a) provides for a right of adjudication before a
Delaware court in the event of certain adverse results under the
Agreement.]

In the event that a determination shall have been made pursuant to
Section 6(b) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to
indemnification, any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to this
Section 7 shall be conducted in all respects as a de novo trial on the
merits, and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of the adverse
determination under Section 6(b).

[Comment:  Sections 7(b) through 7(e) seek to extend statutory
indemnification rights pursuant to Section 145(f).]

If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 6(b) of this
Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company
shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding
commenced pursuant to this Section 7, absent (i) a misstatement by
Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact
necessary to make Indemnitee’s misstatement not materially misleading
in connection with the application for indemnification, or (ii) a
prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.

In the event that Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section 7, seeks a
judicial adjudication of his rights under, or to recover damages for
breach of, this Agreement, or to recover under any directors’ and
officers’ liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, the
Company shall pay on his behalf, in advance, any and all expenses (of
the types described in the definition of Expenses in Section 13 of this
Agreement) actually and reasonably incurred by him in such judicial
adjudication, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined
to be entitled to such indemnification, advancement of expenses or
insurance recovery.

The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding
commenced pursuant to this Section 7 that the procedures and
presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable
and shall stipulate in any such court that the Company is bound by all
the provisions of this Agreement.  The Company shall indemnify
Indemnitee against any and all Expenses and, if requested by Indemnitee,
shall (within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written
request therefore) advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, such
expenses to Indemnitee, which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection
with any action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advance of
Expenses from the Company under this Agreement or under any directors'
and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company,
regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled
to such indemnification, advancement of Expenses or insurance recovery,
as the case may be.

Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no
determination as to entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement
shall be required to be made prior to the final disposition of the
Proceeding.

Non-Exclusivity; Survival of Rights; Insurance; Primacy of
Indemnification; Subrogation.

The rights of indemnification as provided by this Agreement shall not be
deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time
be entitled under applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation, the
By-laws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders, a resolution of
directors of the Company, or otherwise.  No amendment, alteration or
repeal of this Agreement or of any provision hereof shall limit or
restrict any right of Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of any
action taken or omitted by such Indemnitee in his Corporate Status prior
to such amendment, alteration or repeal.  To the extent that a change in
the DGCL, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater
indemnification than would be afforded currently under the Certificate
of Incorporation, By-laws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the
parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater
benefits so afforded by such change.  No right or remedy herein
conferred is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and
every other right and remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to
every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter
existing at law or in equity or otherwise.  The assertion or employment
of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the
concurrent assertion or employment of any other right or remedy.

To the extent that the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies
providing liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, or
agents or fiduciaries of the Company or of any other corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other
enterprise that such person serves at the request of the Company,
Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance
with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage available
for any director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary under such
policy or policies.  If, at the time of the receipt of a notice of a
claim pursuant to the terms hereof, the Company has directors' and
officers' liability insurance in effect, the Company shall give prompt
notice of the commencement of such proceeding to the insurers in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies. 
The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to
cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts
payable as a result of such proceeding in accordance with the terms of
such policies.

[Comment:  Some indemnification agreements require the corporation to
obtain (or use commercially reasonable or best efforts to obtain) D&O
insurance with specified policy limits or other terms.  Instead, this
agreement requires the corporation to furnish the Indemnitee with the
maximum level of D&O insurance coverage provided to other like parties.]

[The Company hereby acknowledges that Indemnitee has certain rights to
indemnification, advancement of expenses and/or insurance provided by
[Name of Fund/Sponsor] and certain of [its][their] affiliates
(collectively, the “Fund Indemnitors”).  The Company hereby agrees
(i) that it is the indemnitor of first resort (i.e., its obligations to
Indemnitee are primary and any obligation of the Fund Indemnitors to
advance expenses or to provide indemnification for the same expenses or
liabilities incurred by Indemnitee are secondary), (ii) that it shall be
required to advance the full amount of expenses incurred by Indemnitee
and shall be liable for the full amount of all Expenses, judgments,
penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement to the extent legally
permitted and as required by the terms of this Agreement and the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company (or any other
agreement between the Company and Indemnitee), without regard to any
rights Indemnitee may have against the Fund Indemnitors, and (iii)  that
it irrevocably waives, relinquishes and releases the Fund Indemnitors
from any and all claims against the Fund Indemnitors for contribution,
subrogation or any other recovery of any kind in respect thereof.  The
Company further agrees that no advancement or payment by the Fund
Indemnitors on behalf of Indemnitee with respect to any claim for which
Indemnitee has sought indemnification from the Company shall affect the
foregoing and the Fund Indemnitors shall have a right of contribution
and/or be subrogated to the extent of such advancement or payment to all
of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee against the Company.  The
Company and Indemnitee agree that the Fund Indemnitors are express third
party beneficiaries of the terms of this Section 8(c).]

[Comment: This provision is intended to be used for directors appointed
by investment funds to address the ruling in Levy et al. v. HLI
Operating Company, Inc., 2007 WL 1500032 (Del. Ch. May 16, 2007), which
held that investment funds providing indemnification to their partners
who serve on boards of fund portfolio companies are co-indemnitors with
the portfolio company and, therefore, are not entitled to recover from
the portfolio company the full amount of any payments advanced on behalf
of the partner-director.  Rather, the fund only has a claim for
contribution to the extent it advanced more than its fair share.  In the
absence of a provision such as the above, it is possible the Levy case
will be broadly construed to obligate a fund providing such
indemnification to contribute its share of any payments made by any
other party providing like indemnification to its director designees.]

Except as provided in paragraph (c) above, in the event of any payment
under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of
such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee (other than
against the Fund Indemnitors), who shall execute all papers required and
take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of
such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to
enforce such rights.

Except as provided in paragraph (c) above, the Company shall not be
liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise
indemnifiable hereunder if and to the extent that Indemnitee has
otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy,
contract, agreement or otherwise.

[Comment:  This provision integrates indemnification under the agreement
with indemnification from other sources by providing that payments under
the agreement shall be offset by payments from other sources, other than
from the Fund Indemnitors as provided in paragraph (c).]

Except as provided in paragraph (c) above, the Company's obligation to
indemnify or advance Expenses hereunder to Indemnitee who is or was
serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee
or agent of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust,
employee benefit plan or other enterprise shall be reduced by any amount
Indemnitee has actually received as indemnification or advancement of
expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust,
employee benefit plan or other enterprise.

Exception to Right of Indemnification. Notwithstanding any provision in
this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated under this Agreement
to make any indemnity in connection with any claim made against
Indemnitee:

for which payment has actually been made to or on behalf of Indemnitee
under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision, except with
respect to any excess beyond the amount paid under any insurance policy
or other indemnity provision, provided, that the foregoing shall not
affect the rights of Indemnitee or the Fund Indemnitors set forth in
Section 8(c) above; or

for an accounting of profits made from the purchase and sale (or sale
and purchase) by Indemnitee of securities of the Company within the
meaning of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, or similar provisions of state statutory law or common law; or

in connection with any Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding)
initiated by Indemnitee, including any Proceeding (or any part of any
Proceeding) initiated by Indemnitee against the Company or its
directors, officers, employees or other indemnitees, unless (i) the
Board authorized the Proceeding (or any part of any Proceeding) prior to
its initiation, or (ii) the Company provides the indemnification, in its
sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the Company under
applicable law.

[Comment:  This provision is designed to prevent the indemnitee from
being indemnified for actions brought by the indemnitee except as
otherwise provided. as well as for liability under Section 16(b) of the
1934 Act and where payment has already been made under an insurance
policy.]  

Duration of Agreement.  All agreements and obligations of the Company
contained herein shall continue during the period Indemnitee is an
officer or director of the Company (or is or was serving at the request
of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise)
[consider extending for several years after term of service, even if
claim has not yet been paid] and shall continue thereafter so long as
Indemnitee shall be subject to any Proceeding (or any proceeding
commenced under Section 7 hereof) by reason of his Corporate Status,
whether or not he is acting or serving in any such capacity at the time
any liability or expense is incurred for which indemnification can be
provided under this Agreement.  [This Agreement shall be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and
their respective successors (including any direct or indirect successor
by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially
all of the business or assets of the Company), assigns, spouses, heirs,
executors and personal and legal representatives.]

Security.  To the extent requested by Indemnitee and approved by the
Board, the Company may at any time and from time to time provide
security to Indemnitee for the Company’s obligations hereunder through
an irrevocable bank line of credit, funded trust or other collateral. 
Any such security, once provided to Indemnitee, may not be revoked or
released without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee.

Enforcement.

The Company expressly confirms and agrees that it has entered into this
Agreement and assumes the obligations imposed on it hereby in order to
induce Indemnitee to serve as an officer or director of the Company, and
the Company acknowledges that Indemnitee is relying upon this Agreement
in serving as an officer or director of the Company.

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all
prior agreements and understandings, oral, written and implied, between
the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.

The Company shall not seek from a court, or agree to, a "bar order"
which would have the effect of prohibiting or limiting the Indemnitee's
rights to receive advancement of expenses under this Agreement.

[Comment:  See In re HealthSouth Corp. Securities Litigation, 572 F.3d
854 (11th Cir. 2009).]

Definitions.  For purposes of this Agreement:

“Corporate Status” describes the status of a person who is or was a
director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or of any
other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit
plan or other enterprise that such person is or was serving at the
express written request of the Company.

“Disinterested Director” means a director of the Company who is not
and was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which
indemnification is sought by Indemnitee.

“Enterprise” shall mean the Company and any other corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other
enterprise that Indemnitee is or was serving at the express written
request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, agent or
fiduciary.

“Expenses” shall include all reasonable attorneys’ fees,
retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees,
travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs,
telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees and all other
disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in
connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or
defend, investigating, participating, or being or preparing to be a
witness in a Proceeding, or responding to, or objecting to, a request to
provide discovery in any Proceeding.  Expenses also shall include
Expenses incurred in connection with any appeal resulting from any
Proceeding [and any federal, state, local or foreign taxes imposed on
the Indemnitee as a result of the actual or deemed receipt of any
payments under this Agreement], including without limitation the
premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bond,
supersede as bond, or other appeal bond or its equivalent.  Expenses,
however, shall not include amounts paid in settlement by Indemnitee or
the amount of judgments or fines against Indemnitee.

“Independent Counsel” means a law firm, or a member of a law firm,
that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently
is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent (i) the
Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other
than with respect to matters concerning Indemnitee under this Agreement,
or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements), or
(ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for
indemnification hereunder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term
“Independent Counsel” shall not include any person who, under the
applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have
a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee
in an action to determine Indemnitee’s rights under this Agreement. 
The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees of the Independent Counsel
referred to above and to fully indemnify such counsel against any and
all Expenses, claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating
to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.

“Proceeding” includes any threatened, pending or completed action,
suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism,
investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual,
threatened or completed proceeding, whether brought by or in the right
of the Company or otherwise and whether civil, criminal, administrative
or investigative, in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a
party or otherwise, by reason of his or her Corporate Status, by reason
of any action taken by him or of any inaction on his part while acting
in his or her Corporate Status; in each case whether or not he is acting
or serving in any such capacity at the time any liability or expense is
incurred for which indemnification can be provided under this Agreement;
including one pending on or before the date of this Agreement, but
excluding one initiated by an Indemnitee pursuant to Section 7 of this
Agreement to enforce his rights under this Agreement.

Severability.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision
hereof shall in no way affect the validity or enforceability of any
other provision.  [Further, the invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision hereof as to either Indemitee or Appointing Stockholder shall
in no way affect the validity or enforceability of any provision hereof
as to the other.]  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
this Agreement is intended to confer upon Indemnitee [and Appointing
Stockholder] indemnification rights to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable laws.  In the event any provision hereof conflicts with any
applicable law, such provision shall be deemed modified, consistent with
the aforementioned intent, to the extent necessary to resolve such
conflict.   

[Comment: Use the bracketed language in Section 14 if a version of the
indemnification of Appointing Stockholder language is used in Section
1(d)]

Modification and Waiver.  No supplement, modification, termination or
amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing
by both of the parties hereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of
this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other
provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver
constitute a continuing waiver.

Notice By Indemnitee.  Indemnitee agrees promptly to notify the Company
in writing upon being served with or otherwise receiving any summons,
citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document
relating to any Proceeding or matter which may be subject to
indemnification covered hereunder.  The failure to so notify the Company
shall not relieve the Company of any obligation which it may have to
Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise unless and only to the
extent that such failure or delay materially prejudices the Company.

Notices.  All notices and other communications given or made pursuant to
this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed effectively given
(a) upon personal delivery to the party to be notified, (b) when sent by
confirmed electronic mail or facsimile if sent during normal business
hours of the recipient, and if not so confirmed, then on the next
business day, (c) five (5) days after having been sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (d) one
(1) day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier,
specifying next day delivery, with written verification of receipt.  All
communications shall be sent:  

To Indemnitee at the address set forth below Indemnitee signature
hereto.

To the Company at:

______________________________

______________________________

______________________________

Attention:______________________

or to such other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the
Company or to the Company by Indemnitee, as the case may be.

Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in two (2) or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of
which together shall constitute one and the same the same instrument. 
Counterparts may be delivered via facsimile, electronic mail (including
pdf or any electronic signature complying with the U.S. federal ESIGN
Act of 2000, e.g., www.docusign.com) or other transmission method and
any counterpart so delivered shall be deemed to have been duly and
validly delivered and be valid and effective for all purposes.  

Headings.  The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted
for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this
Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.

Governing Law and Consent to Jurisdiction.  This Agreement and the legal
relations among the parties shall be governed by, and construed and
enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without
regard to its conflict of laws rules. The Company and Indemnitee hereby
irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agree that any action or proceeding
arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought
only in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware (the “Delaware
Court”), and not in any other state or federal court in the United
States of America or any court in any other country, (ii) consent to
submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court for purposes
of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this
Agreement, [(iii) appoint, to the extent such party is not otherwise
subject to service of process in the State of Delaware, irrevocably
[name] [address] as its agent in the State of Delaware as such party's
agent for acceptance of legal process in connection with any such action
or proceeding against such party with the same legal force and validity
as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware,]
[NOTE: as the Delaware-incorporated Company is already subject to
service of process in Delaware, this really only applies to the
individual director.] (iv) waive any objection to the laying of venue of
any such action or proceeding in the Delaware Court, and (v) waive, and
agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or
proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been brought in an improper
or inconvenient forum.

SIGNATURE PAGE TO FOLLOW

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this
Indemnification Agreement on and as of the day and year first above
written.

COMPANY

By:		

Name:	

Title:		 

INDEMNITEE

		

Name:  	

Address:		

		

		

		

 PAGE   

  DOCPROPERTY "SWDocID"  \* MERGEFORMAT  RLF1-2597063-2 

 PAGE   4 

This sample document is the work product of a coalition of attorneys who
specialize in venture capital financings, working under the auspices of
the NVCA.  This document is intended to serve as a starting point only,
and should be tailored to meet your specific requirements.  This
document should not be construed as legal advice for any particular
facts or circumstances.  Note that this sample presents an array of
(often mutually exclusive) options with respect to particular deal
provisions.

Last updated August 2013

 PAGE   24 

Last updated August 2013

Last updated August 2013

