This sample document is the work product of a coalition of attorneys who
specialize in venture capital financings, working under the auspices of
the NVCA.  This document is intended to serve as a starting point only,
and should be tailored to meet your specific requirements.  This
document should not be construed as legal advice for any particular
facts or circumstances.  Note that this sample presents an array of
(often mutually exclusive) options with respect to particular deal
provisions.

AMENDED AND RESTATED

CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

Preliminary Notes

General.  

The Certificate of Incorporation is a key document produced in
connection with a venture capital portfolio investment.  Among other
things, the Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation establishes the
rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of each class and
series of the Corporation’s stock.

No Impairment Clause.  

It is not uncommon for counsel to the investors to include a “no
impairment” clause in their Certificate of Incorporation drafts.  A
“no impairment” clause is a broad and general provision that
prohibits the Corporation from acting (or failing to act) in a way that
would circumvent the express and specific provisions of the Certificate
of Incorporation.  Although Delaware courts narrowly construe “no
impairment” clauses, such provisions can be dangerous, both to the
Corporation and to the controlling investors, because they can give rise
to claims of violation by disgruntled minority investors looking for
some grounds on which to base a claim, in the absence of any specific
protective provisions in the Certificate of Incorporation.  In addition,
in a transaction in which the terms of the outstanding Preferred Stock
are to be amended, specifically the anti-dilution and conversion rights,
certain law firms have taken the position that the existence of a “no
impairment” clause in the Certificate of Incorporation requires their
firm to express no opinion with regard to the stockholder action taken
in connection with the subject transaction, and instead assume for
purposes of their opinion that the Corporation has complied with the
provisions of the “no impairment” clause. If appropriate attention
is paid to the specific, substantive provisions of the Certificate of
Incorporation, there is no need for a vague catchall, which may give
rise to the problems described above.  Accordingly, the drafters
intentionally did not include a “no impairment” clause in this
Certificate of Incorporation.

Pay-to-Play Provision.  

This Certificate of Incorporation includes a sample “pay-to-play”
provision, pursuant to which Preferred Stock investors are penalized if
they fail to invest to a specified extent in certain future rounds of
financing.  The provision included herein provides for conversion into
Common Stock of some or all of the Series A Preferred Stock held by
non-participating investors.  An alternative provision which provides
for conversion of some or all of the Series A Preferred Stock held by
non-participating investors into a new series of Preferred Stock (e.g.,
Series A-1 Preferred Stock) identical to the Series A Preferred Stock
but with no anti-dilution protection and no further pay-to-play
provision is also sometimes used.  It is the drafters’ view that this
latter provision is not seen very frequently and therefore it has been
intentionally omitted from this Certificate of Incorporation.  In the
event such a provision is used, careful attention should be paid to the
mechanics of implementing the creation of the additional series of
Preferred Stock, which may include the authorization of blank check
preferred (as described below).

Blank Check Preferred. 

Blank check preferred is the term used when the Certificate of
Incorporation authorizes shares of undesignated Preferred Stock and
grants the Board of Directors the authority to create a new series of
Preferred Stock and establish the rights and preferences of such series.
 Without this express grant of authority to the Board, the Corporation
would need to obtain stockholder approval to amend the Certificate of
Incorporation to create a new series of Preferred Stock.  The drafters
view the inclusion of blank check preferred in a Certificate of
Incorporation for a venture backed company as unusual.  It is sometimes
seen, if (as noted above under “Pay-to-Play Provision”) the Series A
Preferred Stock terms include a pay-to-play provision in which the
Series A Preferred Stock of non-participating investors is converted
into a shadow series of Series A Preferred Stock, in which case it can
be desirable to include blank check preferred to facilitate the creation
(if necessary) of such shadow series.  Even in those circumstances,
however, Section 3 of the Series A Preferred Stock terms often includes
restrictions on the designation or issuance of blank check preferred.  

Accordingly, this Certificate of Incorporation assumes that blank check
preferred will not be used and the drafters intentionally did not
include a provision authorizing blank check preferred.  In the event
blank check preferred is to be included in the Certificate of
Incorporation, appropriate references to other potential series of
Preferred Stock should be included in the Series A Preferred Stock terms
so as to permit the Corporation to create another series of Preferred
Stock by means of a Certificate of Designations without having to revise
the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock (which can only be done by a
Certificate of Amendment, approved by stockholders, and not by a
Certificate of Designations).  In addition, in the event provision is to
be made for blank check preferred, appropriate consideration should also
be given to building in references to such other potential series of
Preferred Stock in the contractual agreements providing for additional
rights and obligations of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock (such
as the Investors’ Rights Agreement, Right of First Refusal and Co-Sale
Agreement, and Voting Agreement).

Choice of Jurisdiction.  

This form is set up for a portfolio company incorporated in Delaware. 
Delaware is generally the preferred jurisdiction for incorporation of
venture-backed companies for many reasons, including:

The Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) is a modern,
current, and internationally recognized and copied corporation statute
which is updated annually to take into account new business and court
developments;

Delaware offers a well-developed body of case law interpreting the DGCL,
which facilitates certainty in business planning;

The Delaware Court of Chancery is considered by many to be the
nation’s leading business court, where judges expert in business law
matters deal with business issues in an impartial setting; and

Delaware offers an efficient and user-friendly Secretary of State’s
office permitting, among other things, prompt certification of filings
of corporate documents.

Please note the following special considerations if the Corporation is
located in California, even though incorporated in Delaware:

Considerations for Corporation with California Shareholders and
Operations.

Section 2115 of the California Corporations Code provides that certain
provisions of California corporate law are applicable to foreign
corporations (e.g., one incorporated in Delaware), to the exclusion of
the law of the state of incorporation, if more than half of the
Corporation’s shareholders and more than half its “business” (a
defined formula based on property, payroll and sales) are located in
California.  As a result, some companies based in California may be
subject to certain provisions of the California corporate law despite
being incorporated in another state, such as Delaware (although, as
noted below, it is not clear that courts will apply Section 2115 if the
law of the jurisdiction of incorporation is inconsistent with the
provisions of Section 2115).  Section 2115 does not apply to public
companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock
Exchange, or the NASDAQ National Market.

One provision of the California Corporations Code that applies to such
“quasi-California” corporations is Section 708, which requires that
shareholders be permitted to cumulate votes in the election of
directors. However, Section 2115 does not require corporations to set
forth this right in their articles or bylaws, and most Silicon Valley
companies that are subject to Section 2115 do not do so.  Under Delaware
law, a corporation must include a provision in its Certificate of
Incorporation in order to allow cumulative voting (see Section 214 of
the DGCL).  Therefore, should a stockholder choose to exercise its right
to cumulate votes under Sections 2115 and 708 of the California
Corporations Code, the corporation may find itself forced to choose
between violating those provisions if it denies cumulative voting, or
violating Section 214 of the DGCL if it allows it.  Current California
case law enforces a shareholder’s rights to cumulate votes in this
situation, relying on the language of Section 2115 stating that the
cited provisions of the California Code apply “to the exclusion of the
law of the jurisdiction in which [the corporation] is incorporated.” 
See Wilson v. Louisiana-Pacific Resources, Inc. (138 Cal. App. 3d 216
(1983)).  However, a Delaware case, VantagePoint Venture Partners 1996
v. Examen (Del. 2005), held that the provisions of Section 2115 of the
California Corporation Code, insofar as they purport to regulate what
stockholder vote is required to approve a corporate action, are
inapplicable to a Delaware corporation, regardless of the
Corporation’s California contacts.  In late May 2012, a California
Court of Appeals case, Lidow v. Superior Court, 141 Cal. Rptr. 3d 729
(Cal. Ct. App. 2012), for the first time signaled acceptance of the
analysis in VantagePoint by a California court; however, this decision
did not explicitly speak to Section 2115 and practitioners remain
advised that it may be prudent for “quasi-California” corporations
to comply with Section 2115 whenever possible.  

Another provision applicable to such “quasi-California” corporations
is the restriction on distributions to shareholders under Section 500 of
the California Corporations Code.   California Corporations Code Section
166 defines “distributions to shareholders” to include all transfers
of cash or property to shareholders without consideration, including
dividends paid to shareholders (except stock dividends), and the
redemptions or repurchases of stock by a corporation or its subsidiary
(subject to certain exclusions, such as the repurchase of stock held by
employees).  The consequence of this broad definition is that dividends,
stock repurchases, and stock redemptions are all subject to the same
tests and restrictions. Unlike Delaware law, which generally permits
companies to pay dividends or make redemptions as long as the
Corporation is solvent following the transaction, California law
prohibits such payments unless the Corporation meets certain mechanical
tests (in particular, that either retained earnings equal or exceed the
size of the proposed distribution or that assets equal or exceed current
liabilities). Additionally, California requires quasi-California
companies to take “preferential dividends” and “preferential
rights” into account when making distributions. However, California
does allow such companies to waive these preferred stock considerations
(see THIRTEENTH in the model charter). As a result of the restrictions
in Section 500, quasi-California companies may be precluded by
California law from making a required dividend or redemption payment,
even though such a payment would be permissible under Delaware law.  
Under California Corporations Code Section 316(a)(1), also applicable to
“quasi-California” corporations, directors are liable to the
corporation for illegal distributions if they acted willfully or
negligently with respect to such a distribution. 

The limitations on director and officer indemnification under Section
317 of the California Corporations Code also purport to be applicable to
a “quasi-California” corporation.  As a result, counsel may want to
tailor indemnification provisions for a “quasi-California”
corporation to reflect California law so that all parties have
consistent expectations with regard to indemnification of officers and
directors.

Finally, Section 1001 and 1101, and Chapter 12 and 13 of the California
Corporations Code also purport to apply to “quasi-California”
corporations.  These provisions deal with mergers, reorganizations, and
asset sales, including voting rights and the application of California
dissenters” rights.  California may require class votes on sale
transactions, so parties should consider whether additional voting
agreements are appropriate to secure a possible Common Stock class vote
in such a transaction.  Additionally, in contrast to Delaware law,
California law will grant dissenters’ rights in connection with the
sale of assets in exchange for stock of an acquiring corporation. 
Furthermore, California law will require a fairness opinion in
connection with certain interested party transactions, so the parties
should take particular care if a merger, reorganization or asset sale
involves a potentially interested party.

AMENDED AND RESTATED

CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

OF

[_________]

(Pursuant to Sections 242 and 245 of the

General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware)

[____________], a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue
of the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware (the “General Corporation Law”),

DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:

That the name of this corporation is [_______________], and that this
corporation was originally incorporated pursuant to the General
Corporation Law on [________ __, 20__] under the name [_______________].

That the Board of Directors duly adopted resolutions proposing to amend
and restate the Certificate of Incorporation of this corporation,
declaring said amendment and restatement to be advisable and in the best
interests of this corporation and its stockholders, and authorizing the
appropriate officers of this corporation to solicit the consent of the
stockholders therefor, which resolution setting forth the proposed
amendment and restatement is as follows:

RESOLVED, that the Certificate of Incorporation of this corporation be
amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:

The name of this corporation is [_______________] (the
“Corporation”).

The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of
Delaware is [_____________], in the City of [__________], County of
[__________].  The name of its registered agent at such address is
[_____________________].

The nature of the business or purposes to be conducted or promoted is to
engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be
organized under the General Corporation Law.

The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation
shall have authority to issue is (i) [_____] shares of Common Stock,
$[_____] par value per share (“Common Stock”) and (ii) [______]
shares of Preferred Stock, $[______] par value per share (“Preferred
Stock”).

The following is a statement of the designations and the powers,
privileges and rights, and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof in respect of each class of capital stock of the
Corporation.  

COMMON STOCK

General.  The voting, dividend and liquidation rights of the holders of
the Common Stock are subject to and qualified by the rights, powers and
preferences of the holders of the Preferred Stock set forth herein.

Voting.  The holders of the Common Stock are entitled to one vote for
each share of Common Stock held at all meetings of stockholders (and
written actions in lieu of meetings)[; provided, however, that, except
as otherwise required by law, holders of Common Stock, as such, shall
not be entitled to vote on any amendment to the Certificate of
Incorporation that relates solely to the terms of one or more
outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected
series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of
one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to the
Certificate of Incorporation or pursuant to the General Corporation
Law].  [There shall be no cumulative voting.]  [The number of authorized
shares of Common Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the
number of shares thereof then outstanding) by (in addition to any vote
of the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock that may be
required by the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation) the
affirmative vote of the holders of shares of capital stock of the
Corporation representing a majority of the votes represented by all
outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote,
irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the General
Corporation Law.]

PREFERRED STOCK

[________] shares of the authorized and unissued Preferred Stock of the
Corporation are hereby designated “Series A Preferred Stock” with
the following rights, preferences, powers, privileges and restrictions,
qualifications and limitations. Unless otherwise indicated, references
to “sections” or “subsections” in this Part B of this Article
Fourth refer to sections and subsections of Part B of this Article
Fourth.

Dividends.

[Use the following paragraph if the Term Sheet calls for no specific
dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock, but an equal sharing if
dividends are declared on the Common Stock.]

The Corporation shall not declare, pay or set aside any dividends on
shares of any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation
(other than dividends on shares of Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock) unless (in addition to the obtaining of any consents
required elsewhere in the Certificate of Incorporation) the holders of
the Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall first receive, or
simultaneously receive, a dividend on each outstanding share of Series A
Preferred Stock in an amount at least equal to (i) in the case of a
dividend on Common Stock or any class or series that is convertible into
Common Stock, that dividend per share of Series A Preferred Stock as
would equal the product of (A) the dividend payable on each share of
such class or series determined, if applicable, as if all shares of such
class or series had been converted into Common Stock and (B) the number
of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of Series
A Preferred Stock, in each case calculated on the record date for
determination of holders entitled to receive such dividend or (ii) in
the case of a dividend on any class or series that is not convertible
into Common Stock, at a rate per share of Series A Preferred Stock
determined by (A) dividing the amount of the dividend payable on each
share of such class or series of capital stock by the original issuance
price of such class or series of capital stock (subject to appropriate
adjustment in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination
or other similar recapitalization with respect to such class or series)
and (B) multiplying such fraction by an amount equal to the Series A
Original Issue Price (as defined below); provided that, if the
Corporation declares, pays or sets aside, on the same date, a dividend
on shares of more than one class or series of capital stock of the
Corporation, the dividend payable to the holders of Series A Preferred
Stock pursuant to this Section 1 shall be calculated based upon the
dividend on the class or series of capital stock that would result in
the highest Series A Preferred Stock dividend.  The “Series A Original
Issue Price” shall mean $[insert initial Series A purchase price] per
share, subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of any stock
dividend, stock split, combination or other similar recapitalization
with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock.

[Use the following paragraph if the Term Sheet calls for a specified
cumulative dividend, payable if and when declared by the Board.]

From and after the date of the issuance of any shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, dividends at the rate per annum of $[___] per share
shall accrue on such shares of Series A Preferred Stock (subject to
appropriate adjustment in the event of any stock dividend, stock split,
combination or other similar recapitalization with respect to the Series
A Preferred Stock) (the “Accruing Dividends”).  Accruing Dividends
shall accrue from day to day, whether or not declared, and shall be
cumulative; provided, however, that except as set forth in the following
sentence of this Section 1 [or in Subsection 2.1 and Section 6], such
Accruing Dividends shall be payable only when, as, and if declared by
the Board of Directors and the Corporation shall be under no obligation
to pay such Accruing Dividends.  The Corporation shall not declare, pay
or set aside any dividends on shares of any other class or series of
capital stock of the Corporation (other than dividends on shares of
Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock) unless (in addition to
the obtaining of any consents required elsewhere in the Certificate of
Incorporation) the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock then
outstanding shall first receive, or simultaneously receive, a dividend
on each outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount at
least equal to [the greater of][the sum of] (i) the amount of the
aggregate Accruing Dividends then accrued on such share of Series A
Preferred Stock and not previously paid and (ii) (A) in the case of a
dividend on Common Stock or any class or series that is convertible into
Common Stock, that dividend per share of Series A Preferred Stock as
would equal the product of (1) the dividend payable on each share of
such class or series determined, if applicable, as if all shares of such
class or series had been converted into Common Stock and (2) the number
of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of Series
A Preferred Stock, in each case calculated on the record date for
determination of holders entitled to receive such dividend or (B) in the
case of a dividend on any class or series that is not convertible into
Common Stock, at a rate per share of Series A Preferred Stock determined
by (1) dividing the amount of the dividend payable on each share of such
class or series of capital stock by the original issuance price of such
class or series of capital stock (subject to appropriate adjustment in
the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination or other
similar recapitalization with respect to such class or series) and (2)
multiplying such fraction by an amount equal to the Series A Original
Issue Price (as defined below); provided that if the Corporation
declares, pays or sets aside, on the same date, a dividend on shares of
more than one class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, the
dividend payable to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to
this Section 1 shall be calculated based upon the dividend on the class
or series of capital stock that would result in the highest Series A
Preferred Stock dividend.  The “Series A Original Issue Price” shall
mean $[insert initial Series A purchase price] per share, subject to
appropriate adjustment in the event of any stock dividend, stock split,
combination or other similar recapitalization with respect to the Series
A Preferred Stock.

Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up; Certain Mergers, Consolidations
and Asset Sales.

[Use the following Subsections 2.1 and 2.2 if the term sheet calls for
non-participating Preferred Stock.]

Preferential Payments to Holders of Series A Preferred Stock.  In the
event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation or Deemed Liquidation Event, the holders
of shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall be entitled
to be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to its stockholders before any payment shall be made to the
holders of Common Stock by reason of their ownership thereof, an amount
per share equal to the greater of (i) [__ times] the Series A Original
Issue Price, plus any dividends declared but unpaid thereon, or (ii) 
such amount per share as would have been payable had all shares of
Series A Preferred Stock been converted into Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4 immediately prior to such liquidation, dissolution, winding
up or Deemed Liquidation Event (the amount payable pursuant to this
sentence is hereinafter referred to as the “Series A Liquidation
Amount”).  If upon any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation or Deemed Liquidation Event, the assets of the
Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders shall be
insufficient to pay the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
the full amount to which they shall be entitled under this
Subsection 2.1, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall
share ratably in any distribution of the assets available for
distribution in proportion to the respective amounts which would
otherwise be payable in respect of the shares held by them upon such
distribution if all amounts payable on or with respect to such shares
were paid in full.

Payments to Holders of Common Stock.  In the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation or
Deemed Liquidation Event, after the payment of all preferential amounts
required to be paid to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock, the remaining assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to its stockholders shall be distributed among the holders
of shares of Common Stock, pro rata based on the number of shares held
by each such holder.

[Use the following Subsections 2.1 and 2.2 if the term sheet calls for
participating Preferred Stock.]

Preferential Payments to Holders of Series A Preferred Stock.  In the
event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation or Deemed Liquidation Event, the holders
of shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall be entitled
to be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to its stockholders before any payment shall be made to the
holders of Common Stock by reason of their ownership thereof, an amount
per share equal to [___ times] the Series A Original Issue Price, plus
any dividends declared but unpaid thereon.  If upon any such
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation or Deemed
Liquidation Event, the assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to its stockholders shall be insufficient to pay the
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock the full amount to which
they shall be entitled under this Subsection 2.1, the holders of shares
of Series A Preferred Stock shall share ratably in any distribution of
the assets available for distribution in proportion to the respective
amounts which would otherwise be payable in respect of the shares held
by them upon such distribution if all amounts payable on or with respect
to such shares were paid in full.

Distribution of Remaining Assets.  In the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation or
Deemed Liquidation Event, after the payment of all preferential amounts
required to be paid to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
the remaining assets of the Corporation available for distribution to
its stockholders shall be distributed among the holders of the shares of
Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock, pro rata based on the number
of shares held by each such holder, treating for this purpose all such
securities as if they had been converted to Common Stock pursuant to the
terms of the Certificate of Incorporation immediately prior to such
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  The
aggregate amount which a holder of a share of Series A Preferred Stock
is entitled to receive under Subsections 2.1 and 2.2 is hereinafter
referred to as the “Series A Liquidation Amount.”

Deemed Liquidation Events.

Definition.  Each of the following events shall be considered a
“Deemed Liquidation Event” unless the holders of at least [specify
percentage] of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock elect
otherwise by written notice sent to the Corporation at least [__] days
prior to the effective date of any such event:

a merger or consolidation in which 

the Corporation is a constituent party or 

a subsidiary of the Corporation is a constituent party and the
Corporation issues shares of its capital stock pursuant to such merger
or consolidation, 

except any such merger or consolidation involving the Corporation or a
subsidiary in which the shares of capital stock of the Corporation
outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continue
to represent, or are converted into or exchanged for shares of capital
stock that represent, immediately following such merger or
consolidation, at least a [majority], by voting power, of the capital
stock of (1) the surviving or resulting corporation; or (2) if the
surviving or resulting corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of
another corporation immediately following such merger or consolidation,
the parent corporation of such surviving or resulting corporation; or 

the sale, lease, transfer, exclusive license or other disposition, in a
single transaction or series of related transactions, by the Corporation
or any subsidiary of the Corporation of all or substantially all the
assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries taken as a whole
(including, without limitation, [_____________]), or the sale or
disposition (whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise) of one or
more subsidiaries of the Corporation if substantially all of the assets
of the Corporation and its subsidiaries taken as a whole are held by
such subsidiary or subsidiaries, except where such sale, lease,
transfer, exclusive license or other disposition is to a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Corporation.

Effecting a Deemed Liquidation Event.  

The Corporation shall not have the power to effect a Deemed Liquidation
Event referred to in Subsection 2.3.1(a)(i) unless the agreement or plan
of merger or consolidation for such transaction (the “Merger
Agreement”) provides that the consideration payable to the
stockholders of the Corporation shall be allocated among the holders of
capital stock of the Corporation in accordance with Subsections 2.1 and
2.2.

In the event of a Deemed Liquidation Event referred to in Subsection
2.3.1(a)(ii) or 2.3.1(b), if the Corporation does not effect a
dissolution of the Corporation under the General Corporation Law within
ninety (90) days after such Deemed Liquidation Event, then (i) the
Corporation shall send a written notice to each holder of Series A
Preferred Stock no later than the ninetieth (90th) day after the Deemed
Liquidation Event advising such holders of their right (and the
requirements to be met to secure such right) pursuant to the terms of
the following clause; (ii) to require the redemption of such shares of
Series A Preferred Stock, and (iii) if the holders of at least [specify
percentage] of the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock
so request in a written instrument delivered to the Corporation not
later than one hundred twenty (120) days after such Deemed Liquidation
Event, the Corporation shall use the consideration received by the
Corporation for such Deemed Liquidation Event (net of any retained
liabilities associated with the assets sold or technology licensed, as
determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation),
together with any other assets of the Corporation available for
distribution to its stockholders, all to the extent permitted by
Delaware law governing distributions to stockholders (the “Available
Proceeds”), on the one hundred fiftieth (150th) day after such Deemed
Liquidation Event, to redeem all outstanding shares of Series A
Preferred Stock at a price per share equal to the Series A Liquidation
Amount.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a redemption
pursuant to the preceding sentence, if the Available Proceeds are not
sufficient to redeem all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock,
the Corporation shall ratably redeem each holder’s shares of Series A
Preferred Stock to the fullest extent of such Available Proceeds, and
shall redeem the remaining shares as soon as it may lawfully do so under
Delaware law governing distributions to stockholders.  The provisions of
Section 6 shall apply, with such necessary changes in the details
thereof as are necessitated by the context, to the redemption of the
Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to this Subsection 2.3.2(b).  Prior to
the distribution or redemption provided for in this Subsection 2.3.2(b),
the Corporation shall not expend or dissipate the consideration received
for such Deemed Liquidation Event, except to discharge expenses incurred
in connection with such Deemed Liquidation Event [or in the ordinary
course of business].

Amount Deemed Paid or Distributed.  The amount deemed paid or
distributed to the holders of capital stock of the Corporation upon any
such merger, consolidation, sale, transfer, exclusive license, other
disposition or redemption shall be the cash or the value of the
property, rights or securities paid or distributed to such holders by
the Corporation or the acquiring person, firm or other entity.  [The
value of such property, rights or securities shall be determined in good
faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.]

Allocation of Escrow and Contingent Consideration. In the event of a
Deemed Liquidation Event pursuant to Subsection 2.3.1(a)(i), if any
portion of the consideration payable to the stockholders of the
Corporation is payable only upon satisfaction of contingencies (the
“Additional Consideration”), the Merger Agreement shall provide that
(a) the portion of such consideration that is not Additional
Consideration (such portion, the “Initial Consideration”) shall be
allocated among the holders of capital stock of the Corporation in
accordance with Subsections 2.1 and 2.2 as if the Initial Consideration
were the only consideration payable in connection with such Deemed
Liquidation Event; and (b) any Additional Consideration which becomes
payable to the stockholders of the Corporation upon satisfaction of such
contingencies shall be allocated among the holders of capital stock of
the Corporation in accordance with Subsections 2.1 and 2.2 after taking
into account the previous payment of the Initial Consideration as part
of the same transaction.  For the purposes of this Subsection 2.3.4,
consideration placed into escrow or retained as holdback to be available
for satisfaction of indemnification or similar obligations in connection
with such Deemed Liquidation Event shall be deemed to be [Initial
Consideration] [Additional Consideration]. 

Voting.

General.  On any matter presented to the stockholders of the Corporation
for their action or consideration at any meeting of stockholders of the
Corporation (or by written consent of stockholders in lieu of meeting),
each holder of outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to cast the number of votes equal to the number of whole shares
of Common Stock into which the shares of Series A Preferred Stock held
by such holder are convertible as of the record date for determining
stockholders entitled to vote on such matter.  Except as provided by law
or by the other provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, holders
of Series A Preferred Stock shall vote together with the holders of
Common Stock as a single class.

Election of Directors.  The holders of record of the shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, exclusively and as a separate class, shall be entitled
to elect [__] directors of the Corporation (the “Series A
Directors”) and the holders of record of the shares of Common Stock,
exclusively and as a separate class, shall be entitled to elect [__]
directors of the Corporation.  Any director elected as provided in the
preceding sentence may be removed without cause by, and only by, the
affirmative vote of the holders of the shares of the class or series of
capital stock entitled to elect such director or directors, given either
at a special meeting of such stockholders duly called for that purpose
or pursuant to a written consent of stockholders.  If the holders of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be,
fail to elect a sufficient number of directors to fill all directorships
for which they are entitled to elect directors, voting exclusively and
as a separate class, pursuant to the first sentence of this
Subsection 3.2, then any directorship not so filled shall remain vacant
until such time as the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock or Common
Stock, as the case may be, elect a person to fill such directorship by
vote or written consent in lieu of a meeting; and no such directorship
may be filled by stockholders of the Corporation other than by the
stockholders of the Corporation that are entitled to elect a person to
fill such directorship, voting exclusively and as a separate class. The
holders of record of the shares of Common Stock and of any other class
or series of voting stock (including the Series A Preferred Stock),
exclusively and voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to
elect the balance of the total number of directors of the Corporation. 
At any meeting held for the purpose of electing a director, the presence
in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority of the outstanding
shares of the class or series entitled to elect such director shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of electing such director.  Except
as otherwise provided in this Subsection 3.2, a vacancy in any
directorship filled by the holders of any class or series shall be
filled only by vote or written consent in lieu of a meeting of the
holders of such class or series or by any remaining director or
directors elected by the holders of such class or series pursuant to
this Subsection 3.2.  [The rights of the holders of the Series A
Preferred Stock and the rights of the holders of the Common Stock under
the first sentence of this Subsection 3.2 shall terminate on the first
date following the Series A Original Issue Date (as defined below) on
which there are issued and outstanding less than [______] shares of
Series A Preferred Stock (subject to appropriate adjustment in the event
of any stock dividend, stock split, combination, or other similar
recapitalization with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock).]

Series A Preferred Stock Protective Provisions.  At any time when
[shares of Series A Preferred Stock] [at least [____] shares of Series A
Preferred Stock (subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of any
stock dividend, stock split, combination or other similar
recapitalization with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock)] are
outstanding, the Corporation shall not, either directly or indirectly by
amendment, merger, consolidation or otherwise, do any of the following
without (in addition to any other vote required by law or the
Certificate of Incorporation) the written consent or affirmative vote of
the holders of at least [specify percentage] of the then outstanding
shares of Series A Preferred Stock, given in writing or by vote at a
meeting, consenting or voting (as the case may be) separately as a
class, and any such act or transaction entered into without such
consent or vote shall be null and void ab initio, and of no force or
effect. 

liquidate, dissolve or wind-up the business and affairs of the
Corporation, effect any merger or consolidation or any other Deemed
Liquidation Event,  or consent to any of the foregoing;

amend, alter or repeal any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation
or Bylaws of the Corporation [in a manner that adversely affects the
powers, preferences or rights of the Series A Preferred Stock];

create, or authorize the creation of, [or issue or obligate itself to
issue shares of,] any additional class or series of capital stock
[unless the same ranks junior to the Series A Preferred Stock with
respect to the distribution of assets on the liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation, the payment of dividends and rights of
redemption], or increase the authorized number of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock or increase the authorized number of shares of any
additional class or series of capital stock [unless the same ranks
junior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to the distribution
of assets on the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, the payment of dividends and rights of redemption];

(i) reclassify, alter or amend any existing security of the Corporation
that is pari passu with the Series A Preferred Stock in respect of the
distribution of assets on the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, the payment of dividends or rights of redemption, if
such reclassification, alteration or amendment would render such other
security senior to the Series A Preferred Stock in respect of any such
right, preference, or privilege or (ii) reclassify, alter or amend any
existing security of the Corporation that is junior to the Series A
Preferred Stock in respect of the distribution of assets on the
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the payment
of dividends or rights of redemption, if such reclassification,
alteration or amendment would render such other security senior to or
pari passu with the Series A Preferred Stock in respect of any such
right, preference or privilege;

purchase or redeem (or permit any subsidiary to purchase or redeem) or
pay or declare any dividend or make any distribution on, any shares of
capital stock of the Corporation other than (i) redemptions of or
dividends or distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock as expressly
authorized herein, (ii) dividends or other distributions payable on the
Common Stock solely in the form of additional shares of Common Stock and
(iii) repurchases of stock from former employees, officers, directors,
consultants or other persons who performed services for the Corporation
or any subsidiary in connection with the cessation of such employment or
service at the lower of the original purchase price or the then-current
fair market value thereof [or (iv) as approved by the Board of
Directors, including the approval of at least one Series A Director]; 

create, or authorize the creation of, or issue, or authorize the
issuance of any debt security, or permit any subsidiary to take any such
action with respect to any debt security[, if the aggregate indebtedness
of the Corporation and its subsidiaries for borrowed money following
such action would exceed $_____] [other than equipment leases or bank
lines of credit] [unless such debt security has received the prior
approval of the Board of Directors, including the approval of [at least
one] Series A Director]; [or]

create, or hold capital stock in, any subsidiary that is not wholly
owned (either directly or through one or more other subsidiaries) by the
Corporation, or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any capital stock
of any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Corporation, or permit any
direct or indirect subsidiary to sell, lease, transfer, exclusively
license or otherwise dispose (in a single transaction or series of
related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of such
subsidiary[.][; or]

[increase or decrease the authorized number of directors constituting
the Board of Directors].

Optional Conversion.  

The holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have conversion rights
as follows (the “Conversion Rights”):

Right to Convert.  

Conversion Ratio.  Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, at the option of the holder thereof, at any time and from
time to time, and without the payment of additional consideration by the
holder thereof, into such number of fully paid and non-assessable shares
of Common Stock as is determined by dividing the Series A Original Issue
Price by the Series A Conversion Price (as defined below) in effect at
the time of conversion.  The “Series A Conversion Price” shall
initially be equal to $_______ [insert original purchase price of Series
A Preferred Stock].  Such initial Series A Conversion Price, and the
rate at which shares of Series A Preferred Stock may be converted into
shares of Common Stock, shall be subject to adjustment as provided
below.

Termination of Conversion Rights.  In the event of a notice of
redemption of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to Section
6, the Conversion Rights of the shares designated for redemption shall
terminate at the close of business on the last full day preceding the
date fixed for redemption, unless the redemption price is not fully paid
on such redemption date, in which case the Conversion Rights for such
shares shall continue until such price is paid in full.  In the event of
a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation or a Deemed
Liquidation Event, the Conversion Rights shall terminate at the close of
business on the last full day preceding the date fixed for the payment
of any such amounts distributable on such event to the holders of Series
A Preferred Stock.

Fractional Shares.  No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued
upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock.  In lieu of any
fractional shares to which the holder would otherwise be entitled, the
Corporation shall pay cash equal to such fraction multiplied by the fair
market value of a share of Common Stock as determined in good faith by
the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  Whether or not fractional
shares would be issuable upon such conversion shall be determined on the
basis of the total number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock the
holder is at the time converting into Common Stock and the aggregate
number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion.

Mechanics of Conversion.

Notice of Conversion.  In order for a holder of Series A Preferred Stock
to voluntarily convert shares of Series A Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock, such holder shall (a) provide written notice to the
Corporation’s transfer agent at the office of the transfer agent for
the Series A Preferred Stock (or at the principal office of the
Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own transfer agent) that
such holder elects to convert all or any number of such holder’s
shares of Series A Preferred Stock and, if applicable, any event on
which such conversion is contingent and (b), if such holder’s shares
are certificated, surrender the certificate or certificates for such
shares of Series A Preferred Stock (or, if such registered holder
alleges that such certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed, a lost
certificate affidavit and agreement reasonably acceptable to the
Corporation to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be
made against the Corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft or
destruction of such certificate), at the office of the transfer agent
for the Series A Preferred Stock (or at the principal office of the
Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own transfer agent).  Such
notice shall state such holder’s name or the names of the nominees in
which such holder wishes the shares of Common Stock to be issued.  If
required by the Corporation, any certificates surrendered for conversion
shall be endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument or instruments
of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation, duly executed by
the registered holder or his, her or its attorney duly authorized in
writing.  The close of business on the date of receipt by the transfer
agent (or by the Corporation if the Corporation serves as its own
transfer agent) of such notice and, if applicable, certificates (or lost
certificate affidavit and agreement) shall be the time of conversion
(the “Conversion Time”), and the shares of Common Stock issuable
upon conversion of the specified shares shall be deemed to be
outstanding of record as of such date.  The Corporation shall, as soon
as practicable after the Conversion Time (i) [issue and deliver to such
holder of Series A Preferred Stock, or to his, her or its nominees, a
certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common
Stock issuable upon such conversion in accordance with the provisions
hereof and a certificate for the number (if any) of the shares of Series
A Preferred Stock represented by the surrendered certificate that were
not converted into Common Stock], (ii) pay in cash such amount as
provided in Subsection 4.2 in lieu of any fraction of a share of Common
Stock otherwise issuable upon such conversion and (iii) pay all declared
but unpaid dividends on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock
converted.

Reservation of Shares.  The Corporation shall at all times when the
Series A Preferred Stock shall be outstanding, reserve and keep
available out of its authorized but unissued capital stock, for the
purpose of effecting the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock,
such number of its duly authorized shares of Common Stock as shall from
time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all outstanding
Series A Preferred Stock; and if at any time the number of authorized
but unissued shares of Common Stock shall not be sufficient to effect
the conversion of all then outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred
Stock, the Corporation shall take such corporate action as may be
necessary to increase its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock
to such number of shares as shall be sufficient for such purposes,
including, without limitation, engaging in best efforts to obtain the
requisite stockholder approval of any necessary amendment to the
Certificate of Incorporation.  Before taking any action which would
cause an adjustment reducing the Series A Conversion Price below the
then par value of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of
the Series A Preferred Stock, the Corporation will take any corporate
action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order
that the Corporation may validly and legally issue fully paid and
non-assessable shares of Common Stock at such adjusted Series A
Conversion Price.

Effect of Conversion.  All shares of Series A Preferred Stock which
shall have been surrendered for conversion as herein provided shall no
longer be deemed to be outstanding and all rights with respect to such
shares shall immediately cease and terminate at the Conversion Time,
except only the right of the holders thereof to receive shares of Common
Stock in exchange therefor, to receive payment in lieu of any fraction
of a share otherwise issuable upon such conversion as provided in
Subsection 4.2 and to receive payment of any dividends declared but
unpaid thereon.  Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock so converted
shall be retired and cancelled and may not be reissued as shares of such
series, and the Corporation may thereafter take such appropriate action
(without the need for stockholder action) as may be necessary to reduce
the authorized number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock accordingly.


No Further Adjustment.  Upon any such conversion, no adjustment to the
Series A Conversion Price shall be made for any declared but unpaid
dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion or
on the Common Stock delivered upon conversion.

Taxes.  The Corporation shall pay any and all issue and other similar
taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of
shares of Common Stock upon conversion of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock pursuant to this Section 4.  The Corporation shall not, however,
be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any
transfer involved in the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock
in a name other than that in which the shares of Series A Preferred
Stock so converted were registered, and no such issuance or delivery
shall be made unless and until the person or entity requesting such
issuance has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has
established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has
been paid.

Adjustments to Series A Conversion Price for Diluting Issues.

Special Definitions.  For purposes of this Article Fourth, the following
definitions shall apply:

“Option” shall mean rights, options or warrants to subscribe for,
purchase or otherwise acquire Common Stock or Convertible Securities.

“Series A Original Issue Date” shall mean the date on which the
first share of Series A Preferred Stock was issued.

“Convertible Securities” shall mean any evidences of indebtedness,
shares or other securities directly or indirectly convertible into or
exchangeable for Common Stock, but excluding Options.

“Additional Shares of Common Stock” shall mean all shares of Common
Stock issued (or, pursuant to Subsection 4.4.3 below, deemed to be
issued) by the Corporation after the Series A Original Issue Date, other
than (1) the following shares of Common Stock and (2) shares of Common
Stock deemed issued pursuant to the following Options and Convertible
Securities (clauses (1) and (2), collectively, “Exempted
Securities”):

shares of Common Stock, Options or Convertible Securities issued as a
dividend or distribution on Series A Preferred Stock;

shares of Common Stock, Options or Convertible Securities issued by
reason of a dividend, stock split, split-up or other distribution on
shares of Common Stock that is covered by Subsection 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 or
4.8; 

shares of Common Stock or Options issued to employees or directors of,
or consultants or advisors to, the Corporation or any of its
subsidiaries pursuant to a plan, agreement or arrangement approved by
the Board of Directors of the Corporation[, including the Series A
Directors][, including at least one Series A Director];, [or]

shares of Common Stock or Convertible Securities actually issued upon
the exercise of Options or shares of Common Stock actually issued upon
the conversion or exchange of Convertible Securities, in each case
provided such issuance is pursuant to the terms of such Option or
Convertible Security[.][; or]

[shares of Common Stock, Options or Convertible Securities issued to
banks, equipment lessors or other financial institutions, or to real
property lessors, pursuant to a debt financing, equipment leasing or
real property leasing transaction approved by the Board of Directors of
the Corporation[, including the Series A Directors][, including at least
one Series A Director][that do not exceed an aggregate of [______]
shares of Common Stock (including shares underlying (directly or
indirectly) any such Options or Convertible Securities)]][.][; or]

[shares of Common Stock, Options or Convertible Securities issued to
suppliers or third party service providers in connection with the
provision of goods or services pursuant to transactions approved by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation [, including the Series A
Directors][, including at least one Series A Director][that do not
exceed an aggregate of [______] shares of Common Stock (including shares
underlying (directly or indirectly) any such Options or Convertible
Securities)]][.][; or]

[shares of Common Stock, Options or Convertible Securities issued
pursuant to the acquisition of another corporation by the Corporation by
merger, purchase of substantially all of the assets or other
reorganization or to a joint venture agreement, provided that such
issuances are approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation[,
including the Series A Directors][, including at least one Series A
Director][that do not exceed an aggregate of [______] shares of Common
Stock (including shares underlying (directly or indirectly) any such
Options or Convertible Securities)]][.][; or]

[shares of Common Stock, Options or Convertible Securities issued in
connection with sponsored research, collaboration, technology license,
development, OEM, marketing or other similar agreements or strategic
partnerships approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation[,
including the Series A Directors][, including at least one Series A
Director][that do not exceed an aggregate of [______] shares of Common
Stock (including shares underlying (directly or indirectly) any such
Options or Convertible Securities)]].

No Adjustment of Series A Conversion Price.  No adjustment in the Series
A Conversion Price shall be made as the result of the issuance or deemed
issuance of Additional Shares of Common Stock if the Corporation
receives written notice from the holders of at least [specify
percentage] of the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock
agreeing that no such adjustment shall be made as the result of the
issuance or deemed issuance of such Additional Shares of Common Stock.

Deemed Issue of Additional Shares of Common Stock.  

If the Corporation at any time or from time to time after the Series A
Original Issue Date shall issue any Options or Convertible Securities
(excluding Options or Convertible Securities which are themselves
Exempted Securities) or shall fix a record date for the determination of
holders of any class of securities entitled to receive any such Options
or Convertible Securities, then the maximum number of shares of Common
Stock (as set forth in the instrument relating thereto, assuming the
satisfaction of any conditions to exercisability, convertibility or
exchangeability but without regard to any provision contained therein
for a subsequent adjustment of such number) issuable upon the exercise
of such Options or, in the case of Convertible Securities and Options
therefor, the conversion or exchange of such Convertible Securities,
shall be deemed to be Additional Shares of Common Stock issued as of the
time of such issue or, in case such a record date shall have been fixed,
as of the close of business on such record date.

If the terms of any Option or Convertible Security, the issuance of
which resulted in an adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price
pursuant to the terms of Subsection 4.4.4, are revised as a result of an
amendment to such terms or any other adjustment pursuant to the
provisions of such Option or Convertible Security (but excluding
automatic adjustments to such terms pursuant to anti-dilution or similar
provisions of such Option or Convertible Security) to provide for either
(1) any increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock
issuable upon the exercise, conversion and/or exchange of any such
Option or Convertible Security or (2) any increase or decrease in the
consideration payable to the Corporation upon such exercise, conversion
and/or exchange, then, effective upon such increase or decrease becoming
effective, the Series A Conversion Price computed upon the original
issue of such Option or Convertible Security (or upon the occurrence of
a record date with respect thereto) shall be readjusted to such Series A
Conversion Price as would have obtained had such revised terms been in
effect upon the original date of issuance of such Option or Convertible
Security.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no readjustment pursuant to
this clause (b) shall have the effect of increasing the Series A
Conversion Price to an amount which exceeds the lower of (i) the Series
A Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the original
adjustment made as a result of the issuance of such Option or
Convertible Security, or (ii) the Series A Conversion Price that would
have resulted from any issuances of Additional Shares of Common Stock
(other than deemed issuances of Additional Shares of Common Stock as a
result of the issuance of such Option or Convertible Security) between
the original adjustment date and such readjustment date.

If the terms of any Option or Convertible Security (excluding Options or
Convertible Securities which are themselves Exempted Securities), the
issuance of which did not result in an adjustment to the Series A
Conversion Price pursuant to the terms of Subsection 4.4.4 (either
because the consideration per share (determined pursuant to Subsection
4.4.5) of the Additional Shares of Common Stock subject thereto was
equal to or greater than the Series A Conversion Price then in effect,
or because such Option or Convertible Security was issued before the
Series A Original Issue Date), are revised after the Series A Original
Issue Date as a result of an amendment to such terms or any other
adjustment pursuant to the provisions of such Option or Convertible
Security (but excluding automatic adjustments to such terms pursuant to
anti-dilution or similar provisions of such Option or Convertible
Security) to provide for either (1) any increase in the number of shares
of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of
any such Option or Convertible Security or (2) any decrease in the
consideration payable to the Corporation upon such exercise, conversion
or exchange, then such Option or Convertible Security, as so amended or
adjusted, and the Additional Shares of Common Stock subject thereto
(determined in the manner provided in Subsection 4.4.3(a) shall be
deemed to have been issued effective upon such increase or decrease
becoming effective.

Upon the expiration or termination of any unexercised Option or
unconverted or unexchanged Convertible Security (or portion thereof)
which resulted (either upon its original issuance or upon a revision of
its terms) in an adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price pursuant to
the terms of Subsection 4.4.4, the Series A Conversion Price shall be
readjusted to such Series A Conversion Price as would have obtained had
such Option or Convertible Security (or portion thereof) never been
issued.  

If the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise,
conversion and/or exchange of any Option or Convertible Security, or the
consideration payable to the Corporation upon such exercise, conversion
and/or exchange, is calculable at the time such Option or Convertible
Security is issued or amended but is subject to adjustment based upon
subsequent events, any adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price
provided for in this Subsection 4.4.3 shall be effected at the time of
such issuance or amendment based on such number of shares or amount of
consideration without regard to any provisions for subsequent
adjustments (and any subsequent adjustments shall be treated as provided
in clauses (b) and (c) of this Subsection 4.4.3).  If the number of
shares of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise, conversion and/or
exchange of any Option or Convertible Security, or the consideration
payable to the Corporation upon such exercise, conversion and/or
exchange, cannot be calculated at all at the time such Option or
Convertible Security is issued or amended, any adjustment to the Series
A Conversion Price that would result under the terms of this
Subsection 4.4.3 at the time of such issuance or amendment shall
instead be effected at the time such number of shares and/or amount of
consideration is first calculable (even if subject to subsequent
adjustments), assuming for purposes of calculating such adjustment to
the Series A Conversion Price that such issuance or amendment took place
at the time such calculation can first be made.  

[Use the following Subsection 4.4.4 if the terms sheet calls for a
broad-based weighted average anti-dilution provision]

Adjustment of Series A Conversion Price Upon Issuance of Additional
Shares of Common Stock.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time
after the Series A Original Issue Date issue Additional Shares of Common
Stock (including Additional Shares of Common Stock deemed to be issued
pursuant to Subsection 4.4.3), without consideration or for a
consideration per share less than the Series A Conversion Price in
effect immediately prior to such issue, then the Series A Conversion
Price shall be reduced, concurrently with such issue, to a price
(calculated to the nearest [one-hundredth of a cent]) determined in
accordance with the following formula:

CP2 = CP1*  (A + B) ÷ (A + C).

For purposes of the foregoing formula, the following definitions shall
apply: 

“CP2” shall mean the Series A Conversion Price in effect immediately
after such issue of Additional Shares of Common Stock

“CP1” shall mean the Series A Conversion Price in effect immediately
prior to such issue of Additional Shares of Common Stock; 

“A” shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately prior to such issue of Additional Shares of Common Stock
(treating for this purpose as outstanding all shares of Common Stock
issuable upon exercise of Options outstanding immediately prior to such
issue or upon conversion or exchange of Convertible Securities
(including the Series A Preferred Stock) outstanding (assuming exercise
of any outstanding Options therefor) immediately prior to such issue); 

“B” shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock that would have
been issued if such Additional Shares of Common Stock had been issued at
a price per share equal to CP1 (determined by dividing the aggregate
consideration received by the Corporation in respect of such issue by
CP1); and

“C” shall mean the number of such Additional Shares of Common Stock
issued in such transaction. 

[Use the following Subsection 4.4.4 if the term sheet calls for a full
ratchet anti-dilution provision]

			4.4.4	Adjustment of Series A Conversion Price Upon Issuance of
Additional Shares of Common Stock.  In the event the Corporation shall
at any time after the Series A Original Issue Date [and prior to
[specify end date if one was negotiated]] issue Additional Shares of
Common Stock (including Additional Shares of Common Stock deemed to be
issued pursuant to Subsection 4.4.3), without consideration or for a
consideration per share less than the applicable Series A Conversion
Price in effect immediately prior to such issue, then the Series A
Conversion Price shall be reduced, concurrently with such issue, to the
consideration per share received by the Corporation for such issue or
deemed issue of the Additional Shares of Common Stock; provided that if
such issuance or deemed issuance was without consideration, then the
Corporation shall be deemed to have received an aggregate of [$.001] of
consideration for all such Additional Shares of Common Stock issued or
deemed to be issued.

Determination of Consideration.  For purposes of this Subsection 4.4,
the consideration received by the Corporation for the issue of any
Additional Shares of Common Stock shall be computed as follows:

Cash and Property:  Such consideration shall:

insofar as it consists of cash, be computed at the aggregate amount of
cash received by the Corporation, excluding amounts paid or payable for
accrued interest;

insofar as it consists of property other than cash, be computed at the
fair market value thereof at the time of such issue, as determined in
good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation; and

in the event Additional Shares of Common Stock are issued together with
other shares or securities or other assets of the Corporation for
consideration which covers both, be the proportion of such consideration
so received, computed as provided in clauses (i) and (ii) above, as
determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

Options and Convertible Securities.  The consideration per share
received by the Corporation for Additional Shares of Common Stock deemed
to have been issued pursuant to Subsection 4.4.3, relating to Options
and Convertible Securities, shall be determined by dividing:

The total amount, if any, received or receivable by the Corporation as
consideration for the issue of such Options or Convertible Securities,
plus the minimum aggregate amount of additional consideration (as set
forth in the instruments relating thereto, without regard to any
provision contained therein for a subsequent adjustment of such
consideration) payable to the Corporation upon the exercise of such
Options or the conversion or exchange of such Convertible Securities, or
in the case of Options for Convertible Securities, the exercise of such
Options for Convertible Securities and the conversion or exchange of
such Convertible Securities, by 

the maximum number of shares of Common Stock (as set forth in the
instruments relating thereto, without regard to any provision contained
therein for a subsequent adjustment of such number) issuable upon the
exercise of such Options or the conversion or exchange of such
Convertible Securities, or in the case of Options for Convertible
Securities, the exercise of such Options for Convertible Securities and
the conversion or exchange of such Convertible Securities.

Multiple Closing Dates.  In the event the Corporation shall issue on
more than one date Additional Shares of Common Stock that are a part of
one transaction or a series of related transactions and that would
result in an adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price pursuant to the
terms of Subsection 4.4.4[, and such issuance dates occur within a
period of no more than [ninety (90)] days from the first such issuance
to the final such issuance,] then, upon the final such issuance, the
Series A Conversion Price shall be readjusted to give effect to all such
issuances as if they occurred on the date of the first such issuance
(and without giving effect to any additional adjustments as a result of
any such subsequent issuances within such period).

Adjustment for Stock Splits and Combinations.  If the Corporation shall
at any time or from time to time after the Series A Original Issue Date
effect a subdivision of the outstanding Common Stock, the Series A
Conversion Price in effect immediately before that subdivision shall be
proportionately decreased so that the number of shares of Common Stock
issuable on conversion of each share of such series shall be increased
in proportion to such increase in the aggregate number of shares of
Common Stock outstanding.  If the Corporation shall at any time or from
time to time after the Series A Original Issue Date combine the
outstanding shares of Common Stock, the Series A Conversion Price in
effect immediately before the combination shall be proportionately
increased so that the number of shares of Common Stock issuable on
conversion of each share of such series shall be decreased in proportion
to such decrease in the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding.  Any adjustment under this subsection shall become
effective at the close of business on the date the subdivision or
combination becomes effective.

Adjustment for Certain Dividends and Distributions.  In the event the
Corporation at any time or from time to time after the Series A Original
Issue Date shall make or issue, or fix a record date for the
determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive, a dividend
or other distribution payable on the Common Stock in additional shares
of Common Stock, then and in each such event the Series A Conversion
Price in effect immediately before such event shall be decreased as of
the time of such issuance or, in the event such a record date shall have
been fixed, as of the close of business on such record date, by
multiplying the Series A Conversion Price then in effect by a fraction:

the numerator of which shall be the total number of shares of Common
Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the time of such
issuance or the close of business on such record date, and

the denominator of which shall be the total number of shares of Common
Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the time of such
issuance or the close of business on such record date plus the number of
shares of Common Stock issuable in payment of such dividend or
distribution.

Notwithstanding the foregoing (a) if such record date shall have been
fixed and such dividend is not fully paid or if such distribution is not
fully made on the date fixed therefor, the Series A Conversion Price
shall be recomputed accordingly as of the close of business on such
record date and thereafter the Series A Conversion Price shall be
adjusted pursuant to this subsection as of the time of actual payment of
such dividends or distributions; and (b) that no such adjustment shall
be made if the holders of Series A Preferred Stock simultaneously
receive a dividend or other distribution of shares of Common Stock in a
number equal to the number of shares of Common Stock as they would have
received if all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock had been
converted into Common Stock on the date of such event.

Adjustments for Other Dividends and Distributions.  In the event the
Corporation at any time or from time to time after the Series A Original
Issue Date shall make or issue, or fix a record date for the
determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive, a dividend
or other distribution payable in securities of the Corporation (other
than a distribution of shares of Common Stock in respect of outstanding
shares of Common Stock) or in other property and the provisions of
Section 1 do not apply to such dividend or distribution, then and in
each such event the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall receive,
simultaneously with the distribution to the holders of Common Stock, a
dividend or other distribution of such securities or other property in
an amount equal to the amount of such securities or other property as
they would have received if all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred
Stock had been converted into Common Stock on the date of such event.

Adjustment for Merger or Reorganization, etc.  Subject to the provisions
of Subsection 2.3, if there shall occur any reorganization,
recapitalization, reclassification, consolidation or merger involving
the Corporation in which the Common Stock (but not the Series A
Preferred Stock) is converted into or exchanged for securities, cash or
other property (other than a transaction covered by Subsections 4.4, 4.6
or 4.7), then, following any such reorganization, recapitalization,
reclassification, consolidation or merger, each share of Series A
Preferred Stock shall thereafter be convertible in lieu of the Common
Stock into which it was convertible prior to such event into the kind
and amount of securities, cash or other property which a holder of the
number of shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issuable upon
conversion of one share of Series A Preferred Stock immediately prior to
such reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, consolidation
or merger would have been entitled to receive pursuant to such
transaction; and, in such case, appropriate adjustment (as determined in
good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation) shall be made
in the application of the provisions in this Section 4 with respect to
the rights and interests thereafter of the holders of the Series A
Preferred Stock, to the end that the provisions set forth in this
Section 4 (including provisions with respect to changes in and other
adjustments of the Series A Conversion Price) shall thereafter be
applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to any
securities or other property thereafter deliverable upon the conversion
of the Series A Preferred Stock.  [For the avoidance of doubt, nothing
in this Subsection 4.8 shall be construed as preventing the holders of
Series A Preferred Stock from seeking any appraisal rights to which they
are otherwise entitled under the DGCL in connection with a merger
triggering an adjustment hereunder, nor shall this Subsection 4.8 be
deemed conclusive evidence of the fair value of the shares of Series A
Preferred Stock in any such appraisal proceeding.]

Certificate as to Adjustments.  Upon the occurrence of each adjustment
or readjustment of the Series A Conversion Price pursuant to this
Section 4, the Corporation at its expense shall, as promptly as
reasonably practicable but in any event not later than [ten (10)] days
thereafter, compute such adjustment or readjustment in accordance with
the terms hereof and furnish to each holder of Series A Preferred Stock
a certificate setting forth such adjustment or readjustment (including
the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property into which the
Series A Preferred Stock is convertible) and showing in detail the facts
upon which such adjustment or readjustment is based.  The Corporation
shall, as promptly as reasonably practicable after the written request
at any time of any holder of Series A Preferred Stock (but in any event
not later than [ten (10)] days thereafter), furnish or cause to be
furnished to such holder a certificate setting forth (i) the Series A
Conversion Price then in effect, and (ii) the number of shares of Common
Stock and the amount, if any, of other securities, cash or property
which then would be received upon the conversion of Series A Preferred
Stock.

Notice of Record Date.  In the event:

the Corporation shall take a record of the holders of its Common Stock
(or other capital stock or securities at the time issuable upon
conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock) for the purpose of entitling
or enabling them to receive any dividend or other distribution, or to
receive any right to subscribe for or purchase any shares of capital
stock of any class or any other securities, or to receive any other
security; or

of any capital reorganization of the Corporation, any reclassification
of the Common Stock of the Corporation, or any Deemed Liquidation Event;
or

of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up
of the Corporation,

then, and in each such case, the Corporation will send or cause to be
sent to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock a notice specifying,
as the case may be, (i) the record date for such dividend, distribution
or right, and the amount and character of such dividend, distribution or
right, or (ii) the effective date on which such reorganization,
reclassification, consolidation, merger, transfer, dissolution,
liquidation or winding-up is proposed to take place, and the time, if
any is to be fixed, as of which the holders of record of Common Stock
(or such other capital stock or securities at the time issuable upon the
conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock) shall be entitled to
exchange their shares of Common Stock (or such other capital stock or
securities) for securities or other property deliverable upon such
reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger, transfer,
dissolution, liquidation or winding-up, and the amount per share and
character of such exchange applicable to the Series A Preferred Stock
and the Common Stock.  Such notice shall be sent at least [ten (10)]
days prior to the record date or effective date for the event specified
in such notice.  

Mandatory Conversion.

Trigger Events.  Upon either (a) the closing of the sale of shares of
Common Stock to the public at a price of at least $[_____] per share
(subject to appropriate adjustment in the event of any stock dividend,
stock split, combination or other similar recapitalization with respect
to the Common Stock), in a firm-commitment underwritten public offering
pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, resulting in at least $[______] of [gross] proceeds
[, net of the underwriting discount and commissions,] to the Corporation
or (b) the date and time, or the occurrence of an event, specified by
vote or written consent of the holders of at least [specify percentage]
of the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock (the time of
such closing or the date and time specified or the time of the event
specified in such vote or written consent is referred to herein as the
“Mandatory Conversion Time”), then (i) all outstanding shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall automatically be converted into shares of
Common Stock, at the then effective conversion rate as calculated
pursuant to Subsection 4.1.1. and (ii) such shares may not be reissued
by the Corporation.

Procedural Requirements.  All holders of record of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be sent written notice of the Mandatory Conversion
Time and the place designated for mandatory conversion of all such
shares of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  Such
notice need not be sent in advance of the occurrence of the Mandatory
Conversion Time.  Upon receipt of such notice, each holder of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock in certificated form shall surrender his, her
or its certificate or certificates for all such shares (or, if such
holder alleges that such certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed,
a lost certificate affidavit and agreement reasonably acceptable to the
Corporation to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be
made against the Corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft or
destruction of such certificate) to the Corporation at the place
designated in such notice.  If so required by the Corporation, any
certificates surrendered for conversion shall be endorsed or accompanied
by written instrument or instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory
to the Corporation, duly executed by the registered holder or by his,
her or its attorney duly authorized in writing.  All rights with respect
to the Series A Preferred Stock converted pursuant to Subsection 5.1,
including the rights, if any, to receive notices and vote (other than as
a holder of Common Stock), will terminate at the Mandatory Conversion
Time (notwithstanding the failure of the holder or holders thereof to
surrender any certificates at or prior to such time), except only the
rights of the holders thereof, upon surrender of any certificate or
certificates of such holders (or lost certificate affidavit and
agreement) therefor, to receive the items provided for in the next
sentence of this Subsection 5.2.  As soon as practicable after the
Mandatory Conversion Time and, if applicable, the surrender of any
certificate or certificates (or lost certificate affidavit and
agreement) for Series A Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall (a)
[issue and deliver to such holder, or to his, her or its nominees, a
certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common
Stock issuable on such conversion in accordance with the provisions
hereof] and (b)pay cash as provided in Subsection 4.2 in lieu of any
fraction of a share of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon such
conversion and the payment of any declared but unpaid dividends on the
shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted.  Such converted Series A
Preferred Stock shall be retired and cancelled and may not be reissued
as shares of such series, and the Corporation may thereafter take such
appropriate action (without the need for stockholder action) as may be
necessary to reduce the authorized number of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock accordingly.

[Use the following Section 5A if the Term Sheet calls for a pay-to-play
provision where the penalty is conversion into Common Stock.]

Special Mandatory Conversion.

Trigger Event.  In the event that any holder of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock does not participate in a Qualified Financing (as
defined below) by purchasing in the aggregate, in such Qualified
Financing and within the time period specified by the Corporation
(provided that, the Corporation has sent to each holder of Series A
Preferred Stock at least ten (10) days written notice of, and the
opportunity to purchase its Pro Rata Amount (as defined below) of, the
Qualified Financing), such holder’s Pro Rata Amount, [then each share]
[then the Applicable Portion (as defined below) of the shares] of Series
A Preferred Stock held by such holder shall automatically, and without
any further action on the part of such holder, be converted into shares
of Common Stock at the Series A Conversion Price in effect immediately
prior to the consummation of such Qualified Financing, effective upon,
subject to, and concurrently with, the consummation of the Qualified
Financing.  For purposes of determining the number of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock owned by a holder, and for determining the number of
Offered Securities (as defined below) a holder of Series A Preferred
Stock has purchased in a Qualified Financing, all shares of Series A
Preferred Stock held by Affiliates (as defined below) of such holder
shall be aggregated with such holder’s shares and all Offered
Securities purchased by Affiliates of such holder shall be aggregated
with the Offered Securities purchased by such holder (provided that no
shares or securities shall be attributed to more than one entity or
person within any such group of affiliated entities or persons).  Such
conversion is referred to as a “Special Mandatory Conversion.”

Procedural Requirements.  Upon a Special Mandatory Conversion, each
holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted pursuant to
Subsection 5A.1 shall be sent written notice of such Special Mandatory
Conversion and the place designated for mandatory conversion of all such
shares of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5A.  Upon
receipt of such notice, each holder of such shares of Series A Preferred
Stock in certificated form shall surrender his, her or its certificate
or certificates for all such shares (or, if such holder alleges that any
such certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed, a lost certificate
affidavit and agreement reasonably acceptable to the Corporation to
indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against the
Corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such
certificate) to the Corporation at the place designated in such notice.
If so required by the Corporation, any certificates surrendered for
conversion shall be endorsed or accompanied by written instrument or
instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation, duly
executed by the registered holder or by his, her or its attorney duly
authorized in writing.  All rights with respect to the Series A
Preferred Stock converted pursuant to Subsection 5A.1, including the
rights, if any, to receive notices and vote (other than as a holder of
Common Stock), will terminate at the time of the Special Mandatory
Conversion (notwithstanding the failure of the holder or holders thereof
to surrender any certificates for such shares at or prior to such time),
except only the rights of the holders thereof, upon surrender of any
certificate or certificates of such holders therefor (or lost
certificate affidavit and agreement), to receive the items provided for
in the next sentence of this Subsection 5A.2.  As soon as practicable
after the Special Mandatory Conversion and, if applicable, the surrender
of any certificate or certificates (or lost certificate affidavit and
agreement) for Series A Preferred Stock so converted, the Corporation
shall (a) [issue and deliver to such holder, or to his, her or its
nominees, a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of
Common Stock issuable on such conversion in accordance with the
provisions hereof] and (b) pay cash as provided in Subsection 4.2 in
lieu of any fraction of a share of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon
such conversion and the payment of any declared but unpaid dividends on
the shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted [and (c) a new
certificate for the number of shares, if any, of Series A Preferred
Stock represented by such surrendered certificate and not converted
pursuant to Subsection 5A.1].  Such converted Series A Preferred Stock
shall be retired and cancelled and may not be reissued as shares of such
series, and the Corporation may thereafter take such appropriate action
(without the need for stockholder action) as may be necessary to reduce
the authorized number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock accordingly.

Definitions.  For purposes of this Section 5A, the following
definitions shall apply: 

“Affiliate” shall mean, with respect to any holder of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock, any person, entity or firm which, directly or
indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with
such holder, including, without limitation, any entity of which the
holder is a partner or member, any partner, officer, director, member or
employee of such holder and any venture capital fund now or hereafter
existing of which the holder is a partner or member which is controlled
by or under common control with one or more general partners of such
holder or shares the same management company with such holder. 

[“Applicable Portion” shall mean, with respect to any holder of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock, a number of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock calculated by multiplying the aggregate number of shares
of Series A Preferred Stock held by such holder immediately prior to a
Qualified Financing by a fraction, the numerator of which is equal to
the amount, if positive, by which such holder’s Pro Rata Amount
exceeds the number of Offered Securities actually purchased by such
holder in such Qualified Financing, and the denominator of which is
equal to such holder’s Pro Rata Amount.]

“Offered Securities” shall mean the equity securities of the
Corporation set aside by the Board of Directors of the Corporation for
purchase by holders of outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock in
connection with a Qualified Financing, and offered to such holders. 

“Pro Rata Amount” shall mean, with respect to any holder of Series A
Preferred Stock, the lesser of (a) a number of Offered Securities
calculated by multiplying the aggregate number of Offered Securities by
a fraction, the numerator of which is equal to [the number of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock owned by such holder, and the denominator of
which is equal to the aggregate number of outstanding shares of Series A
Preferred Stock], or (b) the maximum number of Offered Securities that
such holder is permitted by the Corporation to purchase in such
Qualified Financing, after giving effect to any cutbacks or limitations
established by the Board of Directors and applied on a pro rata basis to
all holders of Series A Preferred Stock. 

“Qualified Financing” shall mean any transaction involving the
issuance or sale of Additional Shares of Common Stock after the Series A
Original Issue Date [that would result in at least $_______ in gross
proceeds to the Corporation [including by way of the conversion of any
outstanding debt] [and the reduction of the Series A Conversion Price
pursuant to the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation (without
giving effect to the operation of Subsection 4.4.2)], unless the holders
of at least [specify percentage] of the Series A Preferred Stock elect,
by written notice sent to the Corporation at least [__] days prior to
the consummation of the Qualified Financing, that such transaction not
be treated as a Qualified Financing for purposes of this Section 5A. 

Redemption.

General.  Unless prohibited by Delaware law governing distributions to
stockholders, shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemed by
the Corporation at a price equal to [the greater of (A)][the Series A
Original Issue Price per share, plus all declared but unpaid dividends
thereon][and (B) the Fair Market Value (determined in the manner set
forth below) of a single share of Series A Preferred Stock as of the
date of the Company’s receipt of the Redemption Request] (the
“Redemption Price”), in three (3) annual installments commencing not
more than sixty (60) days after receipt by the Corporation at any time
on or after [_____________], from the holders of at least [specify
percentage] of the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock,
of written notice requesting redemption of all shares of Series A
Preferred Stock (the “Redemption Request”). Upon receipt of a
Redemption Request, the Corporation shall apply all of its assets to any
such redemption, and to no other corporate purpose, except to the extent
prohibited by Delaware law governing distributions to stockholders. 
[For purposes of this Subsection 6.1, the Fair Market Value of a single
share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be the value of a single share
of Series A Preferred Stock as mutually agreed upon by the Company and
the holders of a majority of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then
outstanding, and, in the event that they are unable to reach agreement,
by a third-party appraiser agreed to by the Company and the holders of a
majority of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding.] 
The date of each such installment shall be referred to as a
“Redemption Date.”  On each Redemption Date, the Corporation shall
redeem, on a pro rata basis in accordance with the number of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock owned by each holder, that number of
outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock determined by dividing
(i) the total number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding
immediately prior to such Redemption Date by (ii) the number of
remaining Redemption Dates (including the Redemption Date to which such
calculation applies)[; provided, however, that Excluded Shares (as such
term is defined in Subsection 6.2) shall not be redeemed and shall be
excluded from the calculations set forth in this sentence].  If on any
Redemption Date Delaware law governing distributions to stockholders
prevents the Corporation from redeeming all shares of Series A Preferred
Stock to be redeemed, the Corporation shall ratably redeem the maximum
number of shares that it may redeem consistent with such law, and shall
redeem the remaining shares as soon as it may lawfully do so under such
law.

Redemption Notice.  The Corporation shall send written notice of the
mandatory redemption (the “Redemption Notice”) to each holder of
record of Series A Preferred Stock not less than forty (40) days prior
to each Redemption Date.  Each Redemption Notice shall state:

the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by the holder that
the Corporation shall redeem on the Redemption Date specified in the
Redemption Notice;

the Redemption Date and the Redemption Price;

the date upon which the holder’s right to convert such shares
terminates (as determined in accordance with Subsection 4.1); and

for holders of shares in certificated form, that the holder is to
surrender to the Corporation, in the manner and at the place designated,
his, her or its certificate or certificates representing the shares of
Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed.

[If the Corporation receives, on or prior to the twentieth (20th) day
after the date of delivery of the Redemption Notice to a holder of
Series A Preferred Stock, written notice from such holder that such
holder elects to be excluded from the redemption provided in this
Section 6, then the shares of Series A Preferred Stock registered on the
books of the Corporation in the name of such holder at the time of the
Corporation’s receipt of such notice shall thereafter be “Excluded
Shares.”  Excluded Shares shall not be redeemed or redeemable pursuant
to this Section 6, whether on such Redemption Date or thereafter.]

Surrender of Certificates; Payment.  On or before the applicable
Redemption Date, each holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be
redeemed on such Redemption Date, unless such holder has exercised his,
her or its right to convert such shares as provided in Section 4, shall,
if a holder of shares in certificated form, surrender the certificate or
certificates representing such shares (or, if such registered holder
alleges that such certificate has been lost, stolen or destroyed, a lost
certificate affidavit and agreement reasonably acceptable to the
Corporation to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be
made against the Corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft or
destruction of such certificate) to the Corporation, in the manner and
at the place designated in the Redemption Notice, and thereupon the
Redemption Price for such shares shall be payable to the order of the
person whose name appears on such certificate or certificates as the
owner thereof.  In the event less than all of the shares of Series A
Preferred Stock represented by a certificate are redeemed, a new
certificate, instrument, or book entry representing the unredeemed
shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall promptly be issued to such
holder.

Rights Subsequent to Redemption.  If the Redemption Notice shall have
been duly given, and if on the applicable Redemption Date the Redemption
Price payable upon redemption of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock
to be redeemed on such Redemption Date is paid or tendered for payment
or deposited with an independent payment agent so as to be available
therefor in a timely manner, then notwithstanding that any certificates
evidencing any of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock so called for
redemption shall not have been surrendered, dividends with respect to
such shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall cease to accrue after such
Redemption Date and all rights with respect to such shares shall
forthwith after the Redemption Date terminate, except only the right of
the holders to receive the Redemption Price without interest upon
surrender of any such  certificate or certificates therefor.

Redeemed or Otherwise Acquired Shares.  Any shares of Series A Preferred
Stock that are redeemed or otherwise acquired by the Corporation or any
of its subsidiaries shall be automatically and immediately cancelled and
retired and shall not be reissued, sold or transferred.  Neither the
Corporation nor any of its subsidiaries may exercise any voting or other
rights granted to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock following
redemption.

Waiver.  Any of the rights, powers, preferences and other terms of the
Series A Preferred Stock set forth herein may be waived on behalf of all
holders of Series A Preferred Stock by the affirmative written consent
or vote of the holders of at least [specify percentage] of the shares of
Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding.

Notices.  Any notice required or permitted by the provisions of this
Article Fourth to be given to a holder of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the post office address last
shown on the records of the Corporation, or given by electronic
communication in compliance with the provisions of the General
Corporation Law, and shall be deemed sent upon such mailing or
electronic transmission.    

Subject to any additional vote required by the Certificate of
Incorporation or Bylaws, in furtherance and not in limitation of the
powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly
authorized to make, repeal, alter, amend and rescind any or all of the
Bylaws of the Corporation.

Subject to any additional vote required by the Certificate of
Incorporation, the number of directors of the Corporation shall be
determined in the manner set forth in the Bylaws of the Corporation.

Elections of directors need not be by written ballot unless the Bylaws
of the Corporation shall so provide.  

Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of
Delaware, as the Bylaws of the Corporation may provide.  The books of
the Corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such place
or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of
Directors or in the Bylaws of the Corporation.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, a director of the Corporation
shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders
for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director.  If the
General Corporation Law or any other law of the State of Delaware is
amended after approval by the stockholders of this Article Ninth to
authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal
liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the
Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent
permitted by the General Corporation Law as so amended.

Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article
Ninth by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect
any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the
time of, or increase the liability of any director of the Corporation
with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior
to, such repeal or modification.

  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation is
authorized to provide indemnification of (and advancement of expenses
to) directors, officers and agents of the Corporation (and any other
persons to which General Corporation Law permits the Corporation to
provide indemnification) through Bylaw provisions, agreements with such
agents or other persons, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors
or otherwise, in excess of the indemnification and advancement otherwise
permitted by Section 145 of the General Corporation Law.

Any amendment, repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of
this Article Tenth shall not adversely affect any right or protection of
any director, officer or other agent of the Corporation existing at the
time of such amendment, repeal or modification.

[The Corporation renounces, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any
interest or expectancy of the Corporation in, or in being offered an
opportunity to participate in, any Excluded Opportunity.  An “Excluded
Opportunity” is any matter, transaction or interest that is presented
to, or acquired, created or developed by, or which otherwise comes into
the possession of (i) any director of the Corporation who is not an
employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or (ii) any
holder of Series A Preferred Stock or any partner, member, director,
stockholder, employee or agent of any such holder, other than someone
who is an employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries
(collectively, “Covered Persons”), unless such matter, transaction
or interest is presented to, or acquired, created or developed by, or
otherwise comes into the possession of, a Covered Person expressly and
solely in such Covered Person’s capacity as a director of the
Corporation.]

[Unless the Corporation consents in writing to the selection of an
alternative forum, the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware shall
be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including a
beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding
brought on behalf of the Corporation, (ii) any action asserting a claim
of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other
employee of the Corporation to the Corporation or the Corporation’s
stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against the
Corporation, its directors, officers or employees arising pursuant to
any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the
Corporation’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws or (iv) any
action asserting a claim against the Corporation, its directors,
officers or employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine, except
for, as to each of (i) through (iv) above, any claim as to which the
Court of Chancery determines that there is an indispensable party not
subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery (and the
indispensable party does not consent to the personal jurisdiction of the
Court of Chancery within ten days following such determination), which
is vested in the exclusive jurisdiction of a court or forum other than
the Court of Chancery, or for which the Court of Chancery does not have
subject matter jurisdiction. If any provision or provisions of this
Article Twelfth shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable as
applied to any person or entity or circumstance for any reason
whatsoever, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the validity,
legality and enforceability of such provisions in any other circumstance
and of the remaining provisions of this Article Twelfth (including,
without limitation, each portion of any sentence of this Article Twelfth
containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable) and the application of such provision to other persons or
entities and circumstances shall not in any way be affected or impaired
thereby.]

[For purposes of Section 500 of the California Corporations Code (to the
extent applicable), in connection with any repurchase of shares of
Common Stock permitted under this Certificate of Incorporation from
employees, officers, directors or consultants of the Company in
connection with a termination of employment or services pursuant to
agreements or arrangements approved by the Board of Directors (in
addition to any other consent required under this Certificate of
Incorporation), such repurchase may be made without regard to any
“preferential dividends arrears amount” or “preferential rights
amount” (as those terms are defined in Section 500 of the California
Corporations Code).  Accordingly, for purposes of making any
calculation under California Corporations Code Section 500 in connection
with such repurchase, the amount of any “preferential dividends
arrears amount” or “preferential rights amount” (as those terms
are defined therein) shall be deemed to be zero (0).]

*     *     *

That the foregoing amendment and restatement was approved by the holders
of the requisite number of shares of this corporation in accordance with
Section 228 of the General Corporation Law. 

That this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which
restates and integrates and further amends the provisions of this
Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation, has been duly adopted in
accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation has been executed by a duly authorized officer of this
corporation on this [__ day of _________, 20__].

By:		

	President

EXHIBIT A

(Alternative Indemnification Provisions)

TENTH:  The following indemnification provisions shall apply to the
persons enumerated below.

Right to Indemnification of Directors and Officers.  The Corporation
shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any
person (an “Indemnified Person”) who was or is made or is threatened
to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or
proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a
“Proceeding”), by reason of the fact that such person, or a person
for whom such person is the legal representative, is or was a director
or officer of the Corporation or, while a director or officer of the
Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a
director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a
partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust, enterprise
or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit
plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including
attorneys” fees) reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Person in
such Proceeding.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as
otherwise provided in Section 3 of this Article Tenth, the Corporation
shall be required to indemnify an Indemnified Person in connection with
a Proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such Indemnified Person only
if the commencement of such Proceeding (or part thereof) by the
Indemnified Person was authorized in advance by the Board of Directors.

Prepayment of Expenses of Directors and Officers.  The Corporation shall
pay the expenses (including attorneys’ fees) incurred by an
Indemnified Person in defending any Proceeding in advance of its final
disposition, provided, however, that, to the extent required by law,
such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the
Proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the
Indemnified Person to repay all amounts advanced if it should be
ultimately determined that the Indemnified Person is not entitled to be
indemnified under this Article Tenth or otherwise.

Claims by Directors and Officers.  If a claim for indemnification or
advancement of expenses under this Article Tenth is not paid in full
within thirty (30) days after a written claim therefor by the
Indemnified Person has been received by the Corporation, the Indemnified
Person may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if
successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense
of prosecuting such claim.  In any such action the Corporation shall
have the burden of proving that the Indemnified Person is not entitled
to the requested indemnification or advancement of expenses under
applicable law.

Indemnification of Employees and Agents.   The Corporation may indemnify
and advance expenses to any person who was or is made or is threatened
to be made or is otherwise involved in any Proceeding by reason of the
fact that such person, or a person for whom such person is the legal
representative, is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation or,
while an employee or agent of the Corporation, is or was serving at the
request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of
another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including
service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability
and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys’ fees) reasonably
incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding.  The
ultimate determination of entitlement to indemnification of persons who
are non-director or officer employees or agents shall be made in such
manner as is determined by the Board of Directors in its sole
discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the Corporation
shall not be required to indemnify a person in connection with a
Proceeding initiated by such person if the Proceeding was not authorized
in advance by the Board of Directors.

Advancement of Expenses of Employees and Agents.  The Corporation may
pay the expenses (including attorneys’ fees) incurred by an employee
or agent in defending any Proceeding in advance of its final disposition
on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board of
Directors.

Non-Exclusivity of Rights.  The rights conferred on any person by this
Article Tenth shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such
person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the
certificate of incorporation, these by-laws, agreement, vote of
stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.

Other Indemnification.  The Corporation’s obligation, if any, to
indemnify any person who was or is serving at its request as a director,
officer or employee of another Corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, joint venture, trust, organization or other
enterprise shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as
indemnification from such other Corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, joint venture, trust, organization or other
enterprise.

Insurance.  The Board of Directors may, to the full extent permitted by
applicable law as it presently exists, or may hereafter be amended from
time to time, authorize an appropriate officer or officers to purchase
and maintain at the Corporation’s expense insurance:  (a) to indemnify
the Corporation for any obligation which it incurs as a result of the
indemnification of directors, officers and employees under the
provisions of this Article Tenth; and (b) to indemnify or insure
directors, officers and employees against liability in instances in
which they may not otherwise be indemnified by the Corporation under the
provisions of this Article Tenth.

Amendment or Repeal.  Any repeal or modification of the foregoing
provisions of this Article Tenth shall not adversely affect any right or
protection hereunder of any person in respect of any act or omission
occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.  The rights
provided hereunder shall inure to the benefit of any Indemnified Person
and such person’s heirs, executors and administrators.

 

 	See Kumar v. Racing Corp. of Am., Inc., Case No. C.A. 12039 (Del. Ch.
Ct. April 26, 1991).

 	Pursuant to Section 242 of the DGCL, a Delaware corporation “may
amend its certificate of incorporation, from time to time, in any and as
many respects as may be desired, so long as its certificate of
incorporation as amended would contain only such provisions as it would
be lawful and proper to insert in an original certificate of
incorporation filed at the time of the filing of the amendment.” 
Section 242(b) sets forth the specific requirements that must be
followed to properly effect the amendment.  Section 245 of the DGCL
further permits a Delaware corporation to restate its Certificate of
Incorporation in order to “integrate into a single instrument all of
the provisions of its certificate of incorporation which are then in
effect and operative.”  Section 245(c) requires that a restated
Certificate of Incorporation shall be specifically designated as such in
its heading.

 	Section 245(c) of the DGCL requires that a restated Certificate of
Incorporation state, either in its heading or in an introductory
paragraph, the corporation’s present name (and, if it has changed, the
name under which it was originally incorporated) and the date the
original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of
State of Delaware.

 	The number of authorized shares of Common Stock should be high enough
to cover all outstanding shares of Common Stock, plus all shares of
Common Stock (i) issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and all
other uncommitted shares of stock available for grant under the stock
plan pool, (ii) issuable upon the conversion of shares of designated
Preferred Stock, including, if applicable, accrued dividends, (iii)
issuable upon the exercise or conversion of all other securities
exercisable for or convertible into Common Stock (e.g., warrants and
convertible promissory notes), and (iv) issuable within a reasonable
time frame in respect of any compounding dividend, if applicable. 
Consideration should also be given to authorizing additional shares of
Common Stock to permit the Board of Directors to issue such stock in
connection with future events, such as acquisitions of other companies
or businesses or in lending transactions.  Note, however, that many
venture capital investors will not permit the authorization of
significant amounts of (or even any) additional shares of Common Stock.

The decision to select par or no par stock and, if par, what par value,
has two consequences.  First, as explained in more detail below, it
determines the filing fee owed to the State of Delaware upon filing the
Certificate of Incorporation.  Second, in Delaware, the aggregate par
value of the outstanding stock is subtracted from the net assets of the
corporation in determining the amount of the corporation’s funds that
are “surplus” lawfully available for the payment of dividends and
the repurchase or redemption of stock.  See 8 Del. C § § 154 (setting
forth how “surplus” is calculated), 170(a) (setting forth the
sources of funds from which dividends may lawfully be paid), 160(a)
(setting forth the sources of funds from which stock may lawfully be
redeemed or repurchased).  As is discussed below, both of these
consequences counsel in favor of assigning to stock a low par value (but
not no par value).  The concept of paid in capital being an asset
dedicated to protect creditors has passed.  Creditors no longer rely
solely upon paid in capital or upon the statutory restrictions upon
dividends, redemptions, and other distributions to stockholders that
“impair” capital to protect their interests.  Instead, creditors
negotiate and rely upon a wide variety of contractual arrangements to
protect their interests, including, for example, loan covenants,
security interests and third-party guarantees.  See generally Manning
and Hanks, Legal Capital (3d Ed. 1990).

Corporations incorporated in Delaware are subject to fees for filing
their certificates of incorporation and also are required to pay an
annual franchise tax.  Filing fees for a Certificate of Incorporation
are calculated based on the number of authorized shares, and filing fees
for an amendment increasing the number of authorized shares are
calculated based on the increase in the number of authorized shares. 
There is no cap on filing fees.  For purposes of computing the filing
fee on par value stock, each $100 of authorized capital stock is counted
as one taxable share.  Accordingly, assigning a low par value to stock
can result in a significant reduction in the filing fee.  For example,
the filing fee on 10,000 $.01 par value shares is the same as the filing
fee on 1 $100 par value share.  No par stock is assumed to be $100 par
for this purpose.  Accordingly, in order to minimize the filing fees, a
low par value is recommended ($.01 or less; the State will accept par
values as low as $.00001).

In addition to the filing fees described above, Delaware corporations
are required to pay an annual franchise tax which can be no lower than
$35 per annum and no greater than $165,000 per annum.  Within this
range, the franchise tax due is the lesser of the amount calculated
either on the basis of number of authorized shares (currently $60 per
10,000 authorized shares) or on the basis of an alternative method which
takes into account the corporation’s gross assets and the ratio of its
authorized to its issued shares; as a result, the greater the overhang,
the greater the franchise tax under the alternative method.  Unlike with
the filing fee, the par value of the authorized stock does not generally
affect the amount of the annual franchise tax owed under the authorized
shares method.  In addition, the tax is based on authorized shares, not
only the number of shares that are issued and outstanding.  Accordingly,
it is advisable to consider the franchise taxes that will result from a
particular capitalization before choosing it.  

 	This proviso is intended to ensure that where an amendment to the
Certificate of Incorporation (or a Certificate of Designations created
pursuant to any “blank check” authority) affects only a series of
Preferred Stock, such amendment may be approved by only the holders of
the affected series of Preferred Stock, without the necessity of
approval by the holders of Common Stock.  Section 212 of the General
Corporation Law states that, unless otherwise provided in the
Certificate of Incorporation, each share of capital stock is entitled to
one vote on all matters presented to stockholders for a vote.  Any
amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation must be effected in
accordance with the procedure in Section 242 of the General Corporation
Law, which typically includes the vote of the holders of the Common
Stock.  Accordingly, it may be desirable to provide in the Certificate
of Incorporation that only the holders of the affected series of
Preferred Stock need vote on an amendment to the terms of such series. 
This is not a common provision, however, and adding it to the
Certificate of Incorporation may require a class vote of the Common
Stock.

 	See the introductory notes to this form regarding Section 2115 of the
California Corporations Code.  Alternative provision: No person entitled
to vote at an election for directors may cumulate votes to which such
person is entitled, unless, at the time of such election, the
Corporation is subject to Section 2115 of the California Corporations
Code.  During such time or times that the Corporation is subject to
Section 2115(b) of the California Corporations Code, every stockholder
entitled to vote at an election for directors may cumulate such
stockholder’s votes and give one candidate a number of votes equal to
the number of directors to be elected multiplied by the number of votes
to which such stockholder’s shares are otherwise entitled, or
distribute the stockholder’s votes on the same principle among as many
candidates as such stockholder desires.  No stockholder, however, shall
be entitled to so cumulate such stockholder’s votes unless (i) the
names of such candidate or candidates have been placed in nomination
prior to the voting, and (ii) the stockholder has given notice at the
meeting, prior to the voting, of such stockholder’s intention to
cumulate such stockholder’s votes.  If any stockholder has given
proper notice to cumulate votes, all stockholders may cumulate their
votes for any candidates who have been properly placed in nomination. 
Under cumulative voting, the candidates receiving the highest number of
votes, up to the number of directors to be elected, are elected.

 	Note that including the final bracketed sentence requires the approval
of the holders of Common Stock unless such provision was contained in
the original Certificate of Incorporation.  Without such a provision,
the holders of the Common Stock effectively retain a class protective
vote on subsequent equity financings if the number of authorized shares
of Common Stock would need to be increased to accommodate the conversion
rights of securities issued in such financings.

 	Note that this Certificate of Incorporation provides for two bracketed
alternative dividend provisions.  There are a variety of other
alternatives that may be encountered in the market place (including for
example, specified non-cumulative dividends), but the drafter should be
able to easily adapt one of the two provisions included herein to
provide for whatever dividend terms are applicable to a particular
transaction.

 	The reason for this exclusion (and the comparable exclusion in the
alternative dividend provisions that follow) is that such dividends are
covered by the provisions of Section 4.6 which adjust the Series A
Conversion Price in the event of such a dividend.

 	A cumulative dividend expressed as “$____ per share” will by
definition be non-compounding.  If a compounding accrued dividend is
desired, it should be expressed as a percentage of a “base amount,”
with the “base amount” defined as the original purchase price plus
the amount of previously accrued dividends (it should also be specified
whether this “compounding” of the original purchase price is done on
an annual, quarterly, etc. basis).

 	Insert the bracketed language if the holders of Series A Preferred
Stock will receive the benefit of the accruing dividends upon a
liquidation event or upon redemption.

 	Note that the second bracketed alternative may not be sensible with
respect to dividends paid on another series of Preferred Stock,
particularly one which contains a reciprocal dividend provision, as it
may result in an endless series of payments as any payment with respect
to one series would trigger a payment with respect to the other).  This
provision (and the similar provision in the first alternative dividend
paragraph) are likely to be of little practicable import, as most
venture capital-backed companies do not have the cash flow to make any
dividend payments, and the negative covenants (contained in
Subsection 3.3) prohibit dividend payments without the consent of some
percentage of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock.

 	If accruing dividends are provided for, the following language would
generally be used instead:  “the Series A Original Issue Price, plus
any Accruing Dividends accrued but unpaid thereon, whether or not
declared, together with any other dividends declared but unpaid
thereon.”

 	If this form is being modified to add Series B Preferred Stock as part
of these Preferred Stock terms, the calculation of the Series A
Liquidation Amount and the Series B Liquidation Amount becomes quite
complicated, for the following reason.  In determining whether the
payment to the holders of any particular series of Preferred Stock would
be maximized by the conversion of those shares into Common Stock, it is
necessary to make an assumption as to which shares of Preferred Stock
have converted into Common Stock.  The most logical approach is to
assume the conversion into Common Stock of all shares of each series of
Preferred Stock that would receive a greater per share liquidation
payment if converted into Common Stock than if remaining as Preferred
Stock, and to provide (in the version of the Certificate of
Incorporation incorporating the Series B Preferred Stock terms) that
this assumption shall apply in making the calculation required by this
sentence.  However, determining the amount provided for in clause (ii)
of this sentence for any particular series of Preferred Stock requires
you to calculate the Liquidation Amount for each other series of
Preferred Stock (so you can calculate the amount available for
distribution to the holders of Common Stock and the series of Preferred
Stock in question); and calculating the Liquidation Amount for each such
other series itself involves a determination of whether the original
purchase price for such other series of Preferred Stock (plus dividends,
if applicable) exceeds the amount payable with respect to such series on
an as-converted basis – and this latter amount cannot be calculated
without knowing what the Liquidation Amounts are for all other series of
Preferred Stock.  If the various series of Preferred Stock are not pari
passu, these calculations become even more difficult.

	Some versions of Preferred Stock terms simply state that the
liquidation payment to be made to a particular series of Preferred Stock
is equal to the original purchase price of such Preferred Stock (plus
dividends, if applicable) rather than the higher of such amount and the
as-converted payment.  That alternative formulation is not intended to
result in a substantive difference from the approach taken in this form;
rather, in that alternative formulation, it is assumed that the holders
of a particular series of Preferred Stock would simply convert into
Common Stock if the as-converted payment is greater than the original
purchase price (plus dividends, if applicable).  While such alternative
formulation avoids the drafting complexities described in the preceding
paragraph, it simply shifts those complexities to the decision each
individual holder of Preferred Stock must make at the time of a
liquidation event.  That is, each holder of Preferred Stock must decide
whether it will receive a higher payment if it converts into Common
Stock; and such determination would require each holder of Preferred
Stock to make an assumption as to whether the other holders of Preferred
Stock (both of the same series and of different series) will convert
into Common Stock.

	This issue is not applicable to participating Preferred Stock without a
cap on the liquidation preference – because participating Preferred
Stock entitles its holder to receive both the basic liquidation payment
and the as-converted payment, there is no need to determine whether the
basic payment or the as-converted payment is greater.

 	If accruing dividends are provided for, the following language would
generally be used instead:  “the Series A Original Issue Price, plus
any Accruing Dividends accrued but unpaid thereon, whether or not
declared, together with any other dividends declared but unpaid
thereon.”

 	If a cap to the liquidation preference is specified in the term sheet,
add the following language at the end of this sentence: “; provided,
however, that if the aggregate amount which the holders of Series A
Preferred Stock are entitled to receive under Subsections 2.1 and 2.2
shall exceed [$_______] per share (subject to appropriate adjustment in
the event of a stock split, stock dividend, combination,
reclassification, or similar event affecting the Series A Preferred
Stock) (the “Maximum Participation Amount”), each holder of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive upon such liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation the greater of (i) the
Maximum Participation Amount and (ii) the amount such holder would have
received if all shares of Series A Preferred Stock had been converted
into Common Stock immediately prior to such liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the Corporation.”

 	It is generally unadvisable to insert language that includes a change
of control transaction as a Deemed Liquidation Event, as such
transactions may not be within the control of the Corporation and, in
any event, could be inadvertently triggered with unintended
consequences.  A better practice is to protect against such events
through a combination of other measures, including protective provisions
regarding the issuance of stock and rights of first refusal over
transfers of stock by other stockholders.  Counsel should be aware,
however, that protective provisions and rights of first refusal may not
be sufficient to protect against all eventualities, particularly given
that many venture capital investors refuse to subject their own shares
to transfer restrictions such as a right of first refusal.

 	The vote required to waive the treatment of a particular transaction
as a Deemed Liquidation Event is generally the same vote that would be
required to amend this provision under the terms of Subsection 3.3.

 	If the Corporation is incorporated in a state whose corporate statute
provides for statutory share exchanges (Delaware currently does not), a
share exchange transaction should be referenced (along with a merger or
consolidation) in Subsection 2.3.1(a), as well as in 2.3.2(a) below.

 	Occasionally, it may be appropriate to specify important assets of the
Corporation.

 	In the event the Series A Preferred Stock is not redeemable, replace
this sentence with modified versions of Subsection 6.2 through 6.4.

 	Alternative provision:  “Amount of Deemed Paid or Distributed.  If
the amount deemed paid or distributed under this Subsection 2.3.3 is
made in property other than in cash, the value of such distribution
shall be the fair market value of such property, determined as follows:

(a)	For securities not subject to investment letters or other similar
restrictions on free marketability,

(i)	if traded on a securities exchange, the value shall be deemed to be
the average of the closing prices of the securities on such exchange or
market over the thirty (30) day period ending three (3) days prior to
the closing of such transaction;

(ii)	if actively traded over-the-counter, the value shall be deemed to
be the average of the closing bid prices over the thirty (30) day period
ending three (3) days prior to the closing of such transaction; or

(iii)	if there is no active public market, the value shall be the fair
market value thereof, as determined in good faith by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation.

	(b)	The method of valuation of securities subject to investment letters
or other similar restrictions on free marketability (other than
restrictions arising solely by virtue of a stockholder’s status as an
affiliate or former affiliate) shall take into account an appropriate
discount (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation) from the market value as determined pursuant to clause (a)
above so as to reflect the approximate fair market value thereof.”

 	Investor counsel may seek to add further investor protection by
providing that, if a specified percentage of the Series A holders object
to the valuation, then the value shall be the FMV as mutually determined
by the Corporation and the specified Series A holders, and if the
Corporation and those Series A holders are unable to reach agreement,
then FMV shall be established by an independent appraisal.  If such a
provision is used, the procedural details (e.g., how appraiser is to be
selected, who pays, is the appraisal binding, etc.) should be spelled
out.

 	This section addresses two related issues that may arise when a
venture-capital backed company is acquired in a merger (1) the
allocation of earn-out or performance-based consideration, if any and
(2) how any deductions from the merger consideration to fund an
indemnity escrow or holdback are allocated among the holders of capital
stock of the company.  This provision is designed to address both
issues, with optional language regarding the treatment of escrow.      

In transactions involving earn-out or performance-based consideration,
one approach is to allocate the closing proceeds in accordance with the
liquidation provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation as if such
closing proceeds were the only amounts payable in the transaction.  If,
subsequent to the closing of the transaction, any additional payments
are made upon satisfaction of earn-out or performance-based
contingencies, the liquidation provisions would be re-applied to ensure
that the aggregate consideration is allocated as it would have been were
the closing and post-closing payments made at a single time. 
Alternatively, in a transaction where the closing proceeds were less
than the aggregate liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock and
potential earn-out payments were of sufficient size as to result in full
conversion of all Preferred Stock (assuming such Preferred Stock was not
fully participating) and all proceeds shared pro rata on an as-converted
basis, it has occasionally been argued that in the absence of explicit
language to the contrary, the holders of Preferred Stock must choose to
either be paid their liquidation preference from the closing proceeds
and forego any as-converted based participation in the earn-out, or
convert into Common Stock prior to the closing and thereby waive any
liquidation preference in order to preserve the ability to participate
in the distribution of earn-out proceeds on an as-converted basis. 
Given the consensus view that such alternative is inconsistent with the
bargain implicit in a preferred security, this Subsection 2.3.4 makes it
clear that the “greater of preference or participation” character of
Preferred Stock survives in transaction involving contingent
consideration. 

With respect to the allocation of amounts placed in escrow or subject to
holdback to be available for the satisfaction of indemnity obligations,
Subsection 2.3.4 contains optional language that permits such amounts to
either be treated as “Initial Consideration” and paid with the
closing proceeds and withheld on a pro rata basis from all stockholders,
or instead treated as “Additional Consideration” (e.g., a separate
contingent payment), which results in the holders of Preferred Stock
always receiving their liquidation preference, even if some or all of
the escrow is forfeited (see further discussion on this point below). 
If escrowed amounts are to be treated as “Initial Consideration,”
the parties may wish to consider whether future earn-out payments in
such transaction should take into account whether any portion of such
escrow amounts have been paid to the buyer or other third parties prior
to the time such earn-out payments are made – e.g., whether the
earn-out should “backfill” any escrow dollars applied as liquidation
preference but not eventually paid.  

From the perspective of the holders of Preferred Stock, the pro rata
approach resulting from treating the escrowed amount as “Initial
Consideration” may not give them the full benefit of their
bargained-for liquidation preference because if not all of the escrow is
ultimately released to company stockholders, it can result in the
Preferred Stock holders receiving less, and the Common Stock holders
receiving more, than they would have been entitled to receive if the
reduced consideration had been allocated in the manner provided for in
the Certificate of Incorporation.  The difference between the two
approaches is illustrated by the following example:

(	100 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and 100 shares of Common Stock
are outstanding; 

(	the Series A Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $1.00 per
share, and is non-participating; 

(	the purchase price for the company is $150; and 

(	$15 is placed in escrow, which ultimately is returned to the acquirer
(such the actual purchase price turns out to be $135). 

If the escrow were allocated among all stockholders pro rata, the
initial $135 payment would be allocated $90 to the holders of Series A
Preferred Stock and $45 to the holders of Common Stock; and the escrow
would be allocated $10 to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and $5
to the holders of Common Stock.  If the escrow were later paid to the
stockholders, the $150 purchase price would be allocated as the
Certificate of Incorporation provides – $100 to the Series A holders
and $50 to the Common holders.  On the other hand, if the $15 escrow
were forfeited, the $135 purchase price would be allocated $90 to the
Series A holders and $45 to the Common holders.  However, according to
the liquidation provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, a
purchase price of $135 should be allocated $100 to the holders of Series
A Preferred Stock and $35 to the holders of Common Stock.  Thus this pro
rata allocation of the escrow could provide a smaller payout to the
Preferred Stock holders than would be the result if the liquidation
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation were applied to the
reduced purchase price (after deducting the forfeited escrow proceeds).

Deeming the escrowed consideration as “Additional Consideration”
ensures that the Preferred Stock holders always receive their
liquidation preference, even if some or all of the escrow is forfeited
– the initial payment of $135 would be allocated $100 to the Series A
holders and $35 to the Common holders, and all $15 of the escrow would
be allocated to the Common holders (with any proceeds released from
escrow also going solely to the Common holders).  Whether the escrow is
forfeited or paid to the holders of Common Stock, the result would be an
allocation that is consistent with how the Certificate of Incorporation
would allocate whatever the ultimate purchase price turns out to be.

If the Certificate of Incorporation is silent on allocation of escrow
and contingent consideration, at the time of an acquisition the
company’s Board of Directors will have to approve allocations without
the benefit of a Certificate of Incorporation provision stipulating how
that should be done.  This could create the risk that some constituency
will have grounds to complain about the Board’s decision, including a
claim that the terms of the merger agreement are inconsistent with the
liquidation provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation addressing
how merger consideration must be allocated among the various series and
classes of stock of the company.   

 	The size of the Board of Directors is typically fixed in the Bylaws
(which permits it to be amended without the need for a charter
amendment), though it could be fixed here.  The Voting Agreement also
typically obligates the parties to vote to fix the size of the Board at
a specified number of directors.

 	This sentence has been added in response to FGC Holdings Ltd. v.
Teltronics, Inc., Case No. C.A. 883-N (Del. Ch. Ct. Sept. 14, 2005).

 	Consider including here some or all of the additional restrictions in
Section 5.5 of the Model Investors’ Rights Agreement (which, as set
forth in that form, require the consent of some number of the
investor-designated directors).  Bear in mind that if the matter may be
waived by a vote of a specified portion of the Board, any
investor-designated director will be constrained by his or her fiduciary
duties to the Corporation.  Also, if the consent rights are contained in
the charter, the investor can argue that an act by the Corporation in
contravention of those provisions would be void or voidable rather than
simply a breach of contract.  But see footnote 30.

 	This language has been added in response to the Delaware Chancery
Court’s opinion in Fletcher Int’l, Ltd. v. ION Geophysical Corp.,
Case No. C.A. 5109-VCP (Del. Ch. Ct. May 28, 2010), where the court
declined to unwind promissory notes issued by the defendant corporation
in apparent violation of a preferred stock consent right in its charter.
 Rather than simply declaring the issuance void and ordering the
transaction to be rescinded, the court applied an injunction standard
and concluded that, although the preferred stockholder had proven the
likelihood that its consent right had been contravened, compensatory
damages were calculable (or another equitable remedy might be
available), and, in balancing the potential harms to the parties, held
that the corporation would suffer the greater harm were it forced to
return the borrowed funds.  

 	The purpose of including the broader language relating to “any
merger or consolidation” is to prevent mergers that have no
independent economic substance but rather are effected for the sole
purpose of subverting the terms of the outstanding Series A Preferred
Stock (see, e.g., Benchmark Capital Partners IV, L.P. v. Vague, Case No.
C.A. 19719 (Del. Ch. Ct. July 15, 2002).  If the investors have not
negotiated for a veto right on a sale of the company, the provision
might instead read “effect any merger or consolidation, other than a
Deemed Liquidation Event.”  If the parties consider such provision too
broad, the investors are nevertheless well advised to include an
additional protective provision prohibiting any mergers or
consolidations that result in conversion of the preferred stock other
than in accordance with the provisions of Sections   REF _Ref264020117
\n \h  4  and   REF _Ref264021228 \n \h  \* MERGEFORMAT  5 , in order to
prevent any mischief.  

 	A Deemed Liquidation Event is defined to include a sale or
disposition, by the Corporation or any subsidiary, of substantially all
of the assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries taken as a whole. 
See clause (g) for a prohibition on dispositions of assets by
subsidiaries that do not rise to the level of a Deemed Liquidation
Event.

 	Under Delaware law, the authorization of another series of Preferred
Stock with rights senior to those of the Series A Preferred Stock as to
dividends, liquidation and redemption would generally not constitute an
amendment that adversely affects the Series A Preferred Stock. 
Accordingly, the following subsection contains additional restrictions
specifically dealing with the authorization of senior or pari passu
stock.

	Inclusion of a requirement that Board approval include approval by a
Series A Director is frequently seen as a compromise between requiring
approval of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock (qua-stockholders)
and simply requiring Board approval.  However, prior to inclusion of the
bracketed language, consideration should be given to the fact that any
board-level approval of the Series A Director (as opposed to stockholder
approval by the holders of Series A Preferred Stock) will be in such
director’s capacity as a member of the board of directors and
therefore subject to such director’s fiduciary duties to the
corporation.

	See footnote 34.

 	This provision often is addressed in the Voting Agreement rather than
in the Certificate of Incorporation.

 	Remember in future rounds to substitute a different number, if there
have been adjustments to the Series A Conversion Price, and provide for
additional adjustments based only on events from that date forward.

 	Remove this sentence if the Series A Preferred Stock is not
redeemable.

 For uncertificated shares of Common Stock, use the following for (i): 
“issue and deliver to such holder of Series A Preferred Stock, or to
his, her or its nominees, a notice of issuance of uncertificated shares
and may, upon written request, issue and deliver a certificate for the
number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion in
accordance with the provisions hereof and, may, if applicable and upon
written request, issue and deliver a certificate for the number (if any)
of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock represented by any surrendered
certificate that were not converted into Common Stock,”

 	Some investors will insist that, upon conversion, all declared but
unpaid dividends (and, if the Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to
accruing dividends, all accrued dividends, whether or not declared) be
paid in additional shares of Common Stock rather than in cash.  Assuming
that the Series A Preferred Stock is “preferred stock” for purposes
of Section 305 of the Internal Revenue Code, the issuance of additional
shares of Common Stock in payment of accrued but unpaid dividends will
likely be deemed to be a taxable stock dividend to the extent of the
Corporation’s current and accumulated earnings and profits.

	See footnote 34.

 	Alternative provision:  “(iii) up to [________] shares of Common
Stock, including Options therefor (subject to appropriate adjustment in
the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination or other
similar recapitalization affecting such shares), issued to employees or
directors of, or consultants or advisors to, the Corporation or any of
its subsidiaries pursuant to the [_______] Plan of the Corporation,
whether issued before or after the Series A Original Issue Date
(provided that any Options for such shares that expire or terminate
unexercised or any restricted stock repurchased by the Corporation at
cost shall not be counted toward such maximum number unless and until
such shares are re-granted as new stock grants (or as new Options)
pursuant to the terms of any such plan, agreement or arrangement).”

	See footnote 34.

	See footnote 34.

	See footnote 34.

	See footnote 34.

 	The reason for this parenthetical is that an automatic change in
another security pursuant to its anti-dilution provisions would cause an
automatic adjustment pursuant to this provision. If the adjustment
pursuant to this provision then causes another automatic change in the
other security, it is possible that the second change in the other
security can cause a second change pursuant to this provision, which
causes a third change to the other security and then a third adjustment
pursuant to this provision, and on and on.  This form does not provide
for adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price as a result of
anti-dilution adjustments to the terms of Options or Convertible
Securities, because of the complexity involved in such calculations, and
because the dilutive event triggering the adjustment to the terms of the
Option or Convertible Security would presumably also trigger an
adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price under the terms Subsection
4.4.4 (thus obviating the need to provide for an adjustment to the
Series A Conversion Price as a result of an anti-dilution adjustment to
the terms of the Option or Convertible Security).

 	The reason for this parenthetical is that an automatic change in
another security pursuant to its anti-dilution provisions would cause an
automatic adjustment pursuant to this provision. If the adjustment
pursuant to this provision then causes another automatic change in the
other security, it is possible that the second change in the other
security can cause a second change pursuant to this provision, which
causes a third change to the other security and then a third adjustment
pursuant to this provision, and on and on.  This form does not provide
for adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price as a result of
anti-dilution adjustments to the terms of Options or Convertible
Securities, because of the complexity involved in such calculations, and
because the dilutive event triggering the adjustment to the terms of the
Option or Convertible Security would presumably also trigger an
adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price under the terms Subsection
4.4.4 (thus obviating the need to provide for an adjustment to the
Series A Conversion Price as a result of an anti-dilution adjustment to
the terms of the Option or Convertible Security).

 	This subsection represents a typical “broad-based weighted
average” anti-dilution provision.  Broad-based anti-dilution is more
founder-friendly than a “narrow-based” anti-dilution formula. 
Whether an anti-dilution provision is broad or narrow is determined by
how broad or narrow is the formula (set forth in clause (c) of this
subsection) for calculating the number of outstanding shares of Common
Stock.   An even broader formula would include in that calculation all
shares reserved under stock plans, whether or not subject to outstanding
options (on the theory that those shares are generally included when
translating the “pre-money valuation” agreed between the Corporation
and the investors to a per share purchase price for the financing).  In
contrast, a narrower formula might include in the calculation of
outstanding shares only those shares of Common Stock that are actually
outstanding (i.e., excluding shares of Common Stock issuable on
conversion of options, warrants and, potentially, even the Preferred
Stock itself).  While narrow-based anti-dilution formulas are more
investor-friendly, the most investor-friendly category of anti-dilution
protection is a “full ratchet” anti-dilution.  

 	This subsection and the subsections that follow do not provide for any
adjustment to the Series A Conversion Price in the event of stock
splits, etc. affecting the Series A Preferred Stock, because those
adjustments are covered by the definition of Series A Original Issue
Price, which automatically adjusts the numerator of the conversion
ratio.

 	Alternative provision: add the following after “in each such
event” in place of the current text – “provision shall be made so
that the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall receive upon
conversion thereof, in addition to the number of shares of Common Stock
receivable thereupon, the kind and amount of securities of the
Corporation, cash or other property which they would have been entitled
to receive had the Series A Preferred Stock been converted into Common
Stock on the date of such event and had they thereafter, during the
period from the date of such event to and including the conversion date,
retained such securities receivable by them as aforesaid during such
period, giving application to all adjustments called for during such
period under this paragraph with respect to the rights of the holders of
the Series A Preferred Stock; provided, however, that no such provision
shall be made if the holders of Series A Preferred Stock receive,
simultaneously with the distribution to the holders of Common Stock, a
dividend or other distribution of such securities, cash or other
property in an amount equal to the amount of such securities, cash or
other property as they would have received if all outstanding shares of
Series A Preferred Stock had been converted into Common Stock on the
date of such event.”

	In several recent Delaware cases involving mergers that were not
treated as a liquidation under the Certificate of Incorporation, the
Court of Chancery construed anti-destruction language of the type found
in Section 4.8 as capping the value of the Preferred Stock in an
appraisal proceeding. See In re Appraisal of Metromedia International
Group, Inc., Case No. C.A. 3351-CC (Del. Ch. Ct. April 16, 2009). 
Anti-destruction provisions such as those above focus on the conversion
rights of the Series A Preferred Stock.  An appraisal, by contrast,
could theoretically account for the liquidation, dividend and other
preferences of the Series A Preferred Stock.  In this Model Charter many
mergers are treated as liquidations; the bracketed language provides the
Series A investors protection in the case of a merger that does not
trigger payment of the liquidation preference.

	See Greenmont Capital Partners I, LP v. Mary’s Gone Crackers, Inc.,
Case No. C.A. 7265-VCP (Del. Ch. Ct. Sept. 28, 2012) in which plaintiff,
who did not have a blocking vote on mandatory conversion, unsuccessfully
argued that its blocking vote on actions that would “alter or
change” its rights under the Charter prevented the majority of
Preferred holders from converting all Preferred to Common Stock.  See
also Alta Berkeley VI C.V. v. Omeneon, Inc., Case No. 442,2011 (Del.
Supreme Ct. March 5, 2012) in which plaintiff, who did not have a
blocking vote on mandatory conversion, unsuccessfully argued that it was
entitled to its liquidation preference (rather than its Common Stock
payout) where its stock was converted to Common prior to a liquidation
event.

 For uncertificated shares of Common Stock, use the following for (a): 
“issue and deliver to such holder, or to his, her or its nominees, a
notice of issuance of uncertificated shares and may, upon written
request, issue and deliver a certificate for the number of full shares
of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion in accordance with the
provisions hereof”

 	Structuring the pay-to-play provision so that the Series A Preferred
Stock of a non-participating investor converts into Common Stock (rather
than a “shadow series” of Preferred Stock as discussed in the
preliminary notes under “Pay-to-Play Provision”) is generally
preferable, because (1) this is a harsher penalty; (2) under Delaware
law, certain charter amendments may not be effected without the approval
of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the new shadow
series of Preferred Stock; and (3) conversion to Common Stock avoids the
complexities associated with the creation of the shadow series of
Preferred Stock.

 	Careful consideration must be given to whether shares of Series A
Preferred Stock converted upon a Special Mandatory Conversion should
lose the contractual rights provided under the various ancillary
agreements typically involved in a Preferred Stock financing (e.g.,
registration rights, pre-emptive rights, etc.).

 	For uncertificated shares of Common Stock, use the following for (a): 
“issue and deliver to such holder, or to his, her or its nominees, a
notice of issuance of uncertificated shares and may, upon written
request, issue and deliver a certificate for the number of full shares
of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion in accordance with the
provisions hereof”

 	Applicable only if proportional conversion is provided for by the
Certificate of Incorporation.

 	For uncertificated shares of Common Stock, use the following for (c): 
“may, if applicable and upon written request, issue and deliver a new
certificate for the number of shares, if any, of Series A Preferred
Stock represented by such surrendered shares and not converted pursuant
to Subsection 5A.1”

 	Applicable only if proportional conversion is provided for by the
Certificate of Incorporation.

 	Alternative:  “the number of shares of outstanding Common Stock
owned by such holder, and the denominator of which is equal to the
aggregate number of outstanding shares of Common Stock (for the purpose
of this definition, treating all shares of Common Stock issuable upon
exercise of Options outstanding immediately prior to such Qualified
Financing or upon conversion of Convertible Securities outstanding
(assuming exercise of any outstanding Options therefor) immediately
prior to such Qualified Financing as outstanding).”

 	Redemption provisions are more common in East Coast venture
transactions than in West Coast venture transactions.  However, in the
wake of the Delaware Chancery Court’s opinion in re Trados Inc.
S’holder Litigation, Case No. C.A. 1512-CC (Del. Ch. Ct. July 24,
2009), investors may be foregoing a substantial protection/benefit if
they do not have the right to put their shares back to the company at a
time when they may wish to seek the sale of the company.  See footnote
29 in the Addendum of the Model Voting Agreement for a more detailed
discussion of these issues.  

 	Replace with the following if accruing dividends are selected: “the
Series A Original Issue Price per share, plus any Accruing Dividends
accrued but unpaid thereon, whether or not declared, together with any
other dividends declared but unpaid thereon.”

 	Redemption prices are sometimes fixed at the greater of the Series A
Original Issue Price (plus dividends, if applicable) and the fair market
value of the Series A Preferred Stock on the date of the Redemption
Notice or the date of redemption.  When structuring redeemable Preferred
Stock, consideration should be given to Section 305(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code.  Section 305(c) provides that, in certain circumstances,
redemption premiums on Preferred Stock are treated for tax purposes in
the same manner as original issue discount on bonds.  That is,
redemption premiums are generally treated as being distributed to the
holders of Preferred Stock over the period that the Preferred Stock is
outstanding (the “Constructive Distribution Rule”).  Distribution
amounts for tax periods prior to redemption are determined by applying
the yield to maturity (determined as the discount rate that, when used
to compute the present value of the redemption price, produces an amount
equal to the issue price of the Preferred Stock) to the issue price plus
previously accrued amounts.  If Preferred Stock is subject to either an
automatic redemption or redemption at the request of the Preferred Stock
holders, the only exception to the Constructive Distribution Rule is for
a redemption premium that is de minimis in amount (the “De Minimis
Exception”).  The De Minimis Exception applies where the amount by
which the redemption price at maturity exceeds the issue price is less
than one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the redemption price
multiplied by the number of complete years to maturity.

	It is important to note that the Constructive Distribution Rule only
applies to stock that is treated as “preferred stock” for tax
purposes.  Applicable Treasury Regulations under Code Section 305
indicate that a class of stock will be treated as “preferred stock”
only if it has limited rights to participate in the growth of the issuer
(as determined without regard to any conversion right inherent in the
stock).  Thus, Preferred Stock with unlimited rights to participate (a)
in dividend distributions and (b) upon liquidation in excess of any
stated preference (all as determined without regard to any right to
convert such stock into Common Stock) will allow holders of such
Preferred Stock to assert that their stock is not “preferred stock”
for tax purposes.  Note that even “nonparticipating” Preferred Stock
can be structured in this manner by providing (as does this form) that
upon liquidation of the Corporation the Preferred Stock will receive the
greater of (i) its liquidation preference or (ii) the amount the holders
of such Preferred Stock would receive if the proceeds were distributed
to holders based on the number of shares of Common Stock into which the
Preferred Stock could then be converted.

 	The Corporation’s accountants may take the position that, because
the holders of Series A Preferred Stock have the right to force a
redemption, the Preferred Stock should be reflected above the
stockholders’ equity section of the Corporation’s balance sheet, as
opposed to in the stockholders’ equity section of the balance sheet. 
If so, it is not uncommon for a Corporation to have negative
stockholders’ equity.  In addition, if the Series A Preferred Stock is
redeemable at the greater of the original purchase price and the then
current fair market value, this might cause the Corporation to have to
“mark to market” the redeemable Preferred Stock each quarter, which
could cause significant practical and accounting complexities for the
Corporation.  The Corporation may want to consult with its accountants
about this.

 	This sentence has been added in response to the Delaware Chancery
Court’s opinion in SV Investment Partners, LLC v. Thoughtworks, Inc.,
Case No. C.A. 2724 (Del. Ch. Ct. Nov. 10, 2010) (see footnote 64), and
is intended to require the corporation to use all of its assets (other
than those required to pay its debts as they come due and to continue as
a going concern under applicable Delaware law) to redeem the Series A
Preferred Stock.

 	Fair market value could also be determined by the Board with the
concurrence of the designee of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock
on the Board.

 	The bracketed language, although not commonplace, may be desirable to
minority investors in the Series A Preferred.  If this is included, also
include the applicable bracketed language in Section 6.2.

 	Investors may also seek enforcement provisions for failure to redeem,
including provisions that may entitle the investors to gain control of
the Board of Directors.  Such provisions are generally atypical in early
stage venture transactions but are seen from time to time in private
equity and late stage venture transactions.  However, that may change in
the wake of the Delaware Chancery Court’s opinion in SV Investment
Partners, LLC v. Thoughtworks, Inc., Case No. C.A. 2724 (Del. Ch. Ct.
Nov. 10, 2010) in which the Court construed the words “funds legally
available” in a manner unhelpful to investors.  The Court described a
number of “additional protections” that the investors could have
included to give their redemption rights more teeth, and stated that
“sophisticated investors understand that mandatory redemption rights
provide limited protection and function imperfectly, particularly when a
corporation is struggling financially.”  

 	The percentage of shares of Series A Preferred Stock required for a
waiver is generally fixed at the percentage (typically set forth in
Subsection   REF _Ref264025270 \n \h  3.3 ) required to amend the Series
A Preferred Stock terms.

	This provision authorizes the indemnification of directors, officers
and agents of the Corporation, but does not require it.  Investors who
have the right or ability to appoint affiliates to the Board of
Directors often request that more detailed, mandatory indemnification
provisions be included in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws,
and/or indemnification contracts and insurance coverage.  A form of
mandatory indemnification provision, which could be inserted in this
Article Tenth in place of what is currently there, is attached as
Exhibit A hereto.

	Section 122(17) of the DGCL permits the Corporation to renounce in its
certificate of incorporation the Corporation’s interest or expectancy
in specified business opportunities or specified classes or categories
of business opportunities.  This enables the Corporation to determine in
advance whether these opportunities are corporate opportunities of the
Corporation rather than to address such opportunities as they arise. 
Venture capital investors may be concerned about having to provide these
opportunities to the Corporation and thus may seek this type of
provision.  Note that the defined term “Excluded Opportunity” in the
above example is very pro-investor.  The foregoing Article Eleventh is
merely an example of such a provision, and is not necessarily an
appropriate starting point for any particular transaction.

 	In order to avoid forum shopping in a situation where several courts
might have personal and subject matter jurisdiction over the parties and
claims, the parties may wish to pick a particular court for
any stockholder litigation.  The advantage of Delaware is a neutral
forum with judges who will be familiar with the issues raised.   It
may also serve as a disincentive to potential plaintiffs if they have to
come to Delaware to litigate.  Whether other state courts will honor
such a provision and bounce a plaintiff who tries to bring suit
elsewhere is at the moment an open question.

 	Because Section 2115 of the California Corporations Code purports to
impose California corporate laws on foreign corporations with sufficient
assets and stockholders in the State of California, corporations
incorporated in other states with California stockholders and assets in
California should consider adopting a provision similar to the one
above.  Section 500(a) of the California Corporations Code sets forth a
solvency test governing when a corporation may make distributions to
stockholders or redeem shares of stock, including distributions to
junior stockholders and redemptions of junior stock.  Section 502(b) of
the California Corporations Code allows the corporation and the holders
of Preferred Stock to opt out of the restrictions on distributions to
junior stockholders and redemptions of junior stock in the Certificate
of Incorporation.

 	See DGCL Section 103 for the requirements regarding the execution of
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

 If indemnification agreements will be used for directors, care should
be given to ensure that the provisions of such indemnification
agreements and any mandatory indemnification provision contained in the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws (or elsewhere) do not conflict.

(Footnote continued on next page)

GDSVF&H\1538575.1	DRAFT 

Last updated August 2013

GDSVF&H\1538575.1	DRAFT 

GDSVF&H\1538575.1	DRAFT 

Last updated August 2013	  PAGE  40 

GDSVF&H\1538575.1	DRAFT 

Last updated August 2013	  PAGE  1 

Last updated August 2013

