This sample document is the work product of a national coalition of
attorneys who specialize in venture capital financings, working under
the auspices of the NVCA.  This document is intended to serve as a
starting point only, and should be tailored to meet your specific
requirements.  This document should not be construed as legal advice for
any particular facts or circumstances.  Note that this sample document
presents an array of (often mutually exclusive) options with respect to
particular deal provisions.

 

TERM SHEET

Preliminary Note

	This term sheet maps to the NVCA Model Documents, and for convenience
the provisions are grouped according to the particular Model Document in
which they may be found.  Although this term sheet is perhaps somewhat
longer than a "typical" VC Term Sheet, the aim is to provide a level of
detail that makes the term sheet useful as both a road map for the
document drafters and as a reference source for the business people to
quickly find deal terms without the necessity of having to consult the
legal documents (assuming of course there have been no changes to the
material deal terms prior to execution of the final documents).



TERM SHEET

FOR SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK FINANCING OF

[INSERT COMPANY NAME], INC.

[	 __, 20__]

This Term Sheet summarizes the principal terms of the Series A Preferred
Stock Financing of [___________], Inc., a [Delaware] corporation (the
“Company”).  In consideration of the time and expense devoted and to
be devoted by the Investors with respect to this investment, the No
Shop/Confidentiality [and Counsel and Expenses] provisions of this Term
Sheet shall be binding obligations of the Company whether or not the
financing is consummated.  No other legally binding obligations will be
created until definitive agreements are executed and delivered by all
parties.  This Term Sheet is not a commitment to invest, and is
conditioned on the completion of due diligence, legal review and
documentation that is satisfactory to the Investors.  This Term Sheet
shall be governed in all respects by the laws of  [______________the ].

Offering Terms

	Closing Date:	As soon as practicable following the Company’s
acceptance of this Term Sheet and satisfaction of the Conditions to
Closing (the “Closing”).  [provide for multiple closings if
applicable]

Investors:	Investor No. 1:  [_______] shares ([__]%), $[_________]

Investor No. 2:  [_______] shares ([__]%), $[_________]

[as well other investors mutually agreed upon by Investors and the
Company]

Amount Raised:	$[________], [including $[________] from the conversion
of principal [and interest] on bridge notes].

Price Per Share:	$[________] per share (based on the capitalization of
the Company set forth below) (the “Original Purchase Price”).

Pre-Money Valuation:	The Original Purchase Price is based upon a
fully-diluted pre-money valuation of $[_____] and a fully-diluted
post-money valuation of $[______] (including an employee pool
representing [__]% of the fully-diluted post-money capitalization).  

Capitalization:	The Company’s capital structure before and after the
Closing is set forth on Exhibit A.



	

CHARTER

Dividends:	[Alternative 1:  Dividends will be paid on the Series A
Preferred on an as-converted basis when, as, and if paid on the Common
Stock] 

[Alternative 2:  The Series A Preferred will carry an annual [__]%
cumulative dividend [payable upon a liquidation or redemption].  For any
other dividends or distributions, participation with Common Stock on an
as-converted basis.] 

[Alternative 3:  Non-cumulative dividends will be paid on the Series A
Preferred in an amount equal to $[_____] per share of Series A Preferred
when and if declared by the Board.]



Liquidation Preference:

	In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Company, the proceeds shall be paid as follows:

[Alternative 1 (non-participating Preferred Stock):  First pay [one]
times the Original Purchase Price [plus accrued dividends] [plus
declared and unpaid dividends] on each share of Series A Preferred (or,
if greater, the amount that the Series A Preferred would receive on an
as-converted basis).  The balance of any proceeds shall be distributed
pro rata to holders of Common Stock.]

[Alternative 2 (full participating Preferred Stock):  First pay [one]
times the Original Purchase Price [plus accrued dividends] [plus
declared and unpaid dividends] on each share of Series A Preferred. 
Thereafter, the Series A Preferred participates with the Common Stock
pro rata on an as-converted basis.]

[Alternative 3 (cap on Preferred Stock participation rights):  First pay
[one] times the Original Purchase Price [plus accrued dividends] [plus
declared and unpaid dividends] on each share of Series A Preferred. 
Thereafter, Series A Preferred participates with Common Stock pro rata
on an as-converted basis until the holders of Series A Preferred receive
an aggregate of [_____] times the Original Purchase Price (including the
amount paid pursuant to the preceding sentence).]

A merger or consolidation (other than one in which stockholders of the
Company own a majority by voting power of the outstanding shares of the
surviving or acquiring corporation) and a sale, lease, transfer,
exclusive license or other disposition of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company will be treated as a liquidation event (a
“Deemed Liquidation Event”), thereby triggering payment of the
liquidation preferences described above [unless the holders of [___]% of
the Series A Preferred elect otherwise].  [The Investors' entitlement to
their liquidation preference shall not be abrogated or diminished in the
event part of the consideration is subject to escrow in connection with
a Deemed Liquidation Event.]

Voting Rights:	The Series A Preferred shall vote together with the
Common Stock on an as-converted basis, and not as a separate class,
except (i) [so long as [insert fixed number, or %, or “any”] shares
of Series A Preferred are outstanding,] the Series A Preferred as a
class shall be entitled to elect [_______] [(_)] members of the Board
(the “Series A Directors”), and (ii) as required by law.  The
Company’s Certificate of Incorporation will provide that the number of
authorized shares of Common Stock may be increased or decreased with the
approval of a majority of the Preferred and Common Stock, voting
together as a single class, and without a separate class vote by the
Common Stock. 

Protective Provisions: 	[So long as [insert fixed number, or %, or
“any”] shares of Series A Preferred are outstanding,] in addition to
any other vote or approval required under the Company’s Charter or
Bylaws, the Company will not, without the written consent of the holders
of at least [__]% of the Company’s Series A Preferred, either directly
or by amendment, merger, consolidation, or otherwise: 

(i) liquidate, dissolve or wind-up the affairs of the Company, or effect
any merger or consolidation or any other Deemed Liquidation Event; (ii)
amend, alter, or repeal any provision of the Certificate of
Incorporation or Bylaws [in a manner adverse to the Series A Preferred];
(iii) create or authorize the creation of or issue any other security
convertible into or exercisable for any equity security, having rights,
preferences or privileges senior to or on parity with the Series A
Preferred, or increase the authorized number of shares of Series A
Preferred; (iv) purchase or redeem or pay any dividend on any capital
stock prior to the Series A Preferred, [other than stock repurchased
from former employees or consultants in connection with the cessation of
their employment/services, at the lower of fair market value or cost;]
[other than as approved by the Board, including the approval of [_____]
Series A Director(s)]; or (v) create or authorize the creation of any
debt security [if the Company’s aggregate indebtedness would exceed
$[____][other than equipment leases or bank lines of credit][unless such
debt security has received the prior approval of the Board of Directors,
including the approval of [________] Series A Director(s)]; (vi) create
or hold capital stock in any subsidiary that is not a wholly-owned
subsidiary or dispose of any subsidiary stock or all or substantially
all of any subsidiary assets; [or (vii) increase or decrease the size of
the Board of Directors]. 

Optional Conversion:	The Series A Preferred initially converts 1:1 to
Common Stock at any time at option of holder, subject to adjustments for
stock dividends, splits, combinations and similar events and as
described below under “Anti-dilution Provisions.”

Anti-dilution Provisions:	In the event that the Company issues
additional securities at a purchase price less than the current Series A
Preferred conversion price, such conversion price shall be adjusted in
accordance with the following formula:

[Alternative 1:  “Typical” weighted average:

CP2 = CP1 * (A+B) / (A+C)

CP2 	=	Series A Conversion Price in effect immediately after new issue

CP1	=	Series A Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to new issue

A	=	Number of shares of Common Stock deemed to be outstanding
immediately prior to new issue (includes all shares of outstanding
common stock, all shares of outstanding preferred stock on an
as-converted basis, and all outstanding options on an as-exercised
basis; and does not include any convertible securities converting into
this round of financing) 

B	=	Aggregate consideration received by the Corporation with respect to
the new issue divided by CP1

C	=	Number of shares of stock issued in the subject transaction]

	[Alternative 2:  Full-ratchet – the conversion price will be reduced
to the price at which the new shares are issued.]

	[Alternative 3:  No price-based anti-dilution protection.]

	The following issuances shall not trigger anti-dilution adjustment:

(i) securities issuable upon conversion of any of the Series A
Preferred, or as a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred;
(ii) securities issued upon the conversion of any debenture, warrant,
option, or other convertible security; (iii) Common Stock issuable upon
a stock split, stock dividend, or any subdivision of shares of Common
Stock; and (iv) shares of Common Stock (or options to purchase such
shares of Common Stock) issued or issuable to employees or directors of,
or consultants to, the Company pursuant to any plan approved by the
Company’s Board of Directors [including at least [_______] Series A
Director(s)]. 

Mandatory Conversion:	Each share of Series A Preferred will
automatically be converted into Common Stock at the then applicable
conversion rate in the event of the closing of a [firm commitment]
underwritten public offering with a price of [___] times the Original
Purchase Price (subject to adjustments for stock dividends, splits,
combinations and similar events) and [net/gross] proceeds to the Company
of not less than $[_______] (a “QPO”), or (ii) upon the written
consent of the holders of [__]% of the Series A Preferred.

[Pay-to-Play: 

	[Unless the holders of [__]% of the Series A elect otherwise,] on any
subsequent [down] round all [Major] Investors are required to purchase
their pro rata share of the securities set aside by the Board for
purchase by the [Major] Investors.  All shares of Series A Preferred of
any [Major] Investor failing to do so will automatically [lose
anti-dilution rights] [lose right to participate in future rounds]
[convert to Common Stock and lose the right to a Board seat if
applicable].]

Redemption Rights: 	Unless prohibited by Delaware law governing
distributions to stockholders, the Series A Preferred shall be
redeemable at the option of holders of at least [__]% of the Series A
Preferred commencing any time after [________] at a price equal to the
Original Purchase Price [plus all accrued but unpaid dividends]. 
Redemption shall occur in three equal annual portions.  Upon a
redemption request from the holders of the required percentage of the
Series A Preferred, all Series A Preferred shares shall be redeemed
[(except for any Series A holders who affirmatively opt-out)]. 

STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT

Representations and Warranties:	Standard representations and warranties
by the Company.  [Representations and warranties by Founders regarding
technology ownership, etc.].

Conditions to Closing:	Standard conditions to Closing, which shall
include, among other things, satisfactory completion of financial and
legal due diligence, qualification of the shares under applicable Blue
Sky laws, the filing of a Certificate of Incorporation establishing the
rights and preferences of the Series A Preferred, and an opinion of
counsel to the Company.  

Counsel and Expenses:	[Investor/Company] counsel to draft Closing
documents.  Company to pay all legal and administrative costs of the
financing [at Closing], including reasonable fees (not to exceed
$[_____])and expenses of Investor counsel[, unless the transaction is
not completed because the Investors withdraw their commitment without
cause]. 

Company Counsel: 	[				

									

									]

Investor Counsel:	[					

									

									]

INVESTORS’ RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Registration Rights:

		Registrable Securities:	All shares of Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Series A Preferred [and [any other Common Stock held
by the Investors] will be deemed “Registrable Securities.”

	Demand Registration:	Upon earliest of (i) [three-five] years after
the Closing; or (ii) [six] months following an initial public offering
(“IPO”), persons holding [__]% of the Registrable Securities may
request [one][two] (consummated) registrations by the Company of their
shares.  The aggregate offering price for such registration may not be
less than $[5-15] million.  A registration will count for this purpose
only if (i) all Registrable Securities requested to be registered are
registered, and (ii) it is closed, or withdrawn at the request of the
Investors (other than as a result of a material adverse change to the
Company).  

	Registration on Form S-3:	The holders of [10-30]% of the Registrable
Securities will have the right to require the Company to register on
Form S-3, if available for use by the Company, Registrable Securities
for an aggregate offering price of at least $[1-5 million].  There will
be no limit on the aggregate number of such Form S-3 registrations,
provided that there are no more than [two] per year.

	Piggyback Registration:	The holders of Registrable Securities will be
entitled to “piggyback” registration rights on all registration
statements of the Company, subject to the right, however, of the Company
and its underwriters to reduce the number of shares proposed to be
registered to a minimum of [20-30]% on a pro rata basis and to complete
reduction on an IPO at the underwriter’s discretion.  In all events,
the shares to be registered by holders of Registrable Securities will be
reduced only after all other stockholders’ shares are reduced.  

	Expenses:	The registration expenses (exclusive of stock transfer taxes,
underwriting discounts and commissions will be borne by the Company. 
The Company will also pay the reasonable fees and expenses[, not to
exceed $______,] of one special counsel to represent all the
participating stockholders.  

	Lock-up:	Investors shall agree in connection with the IPO, if requested
by the managing underwriter, not to sell or transfer any shares of
Common Stock of the Company [(including/excluding shares acquired in or
following the IPO)] for a period of up to 180 days [plus up to an
additional 18 days to the extent necessary to comply with applicable
regulatory requirements] following the IPO (provided all directors and
officers of the Company [and [1 – 5]% stockholders] agree to the same
lock-up).  [Such lock-up agreement shall provide that any discretionary
waiver or termination of the restrictions of such agreements by the
Company or representatives of the underwriters shall apply to Investors,
pro rata, based on the number of shares held.  

	Termination:	Upon a Deemed Liquidation Event, [and/or] when all shares
of an Investor are eligible to be sold without restriction under Rule
144 [and/or] the [____] anniversary of the IPO.

No future registration rights may be granted without consent of the
holders of a [majority] of the Registrable Securities unless subordinate
to the Investor’s rights.

Management and Information Rights: 	A Management Rights letter from the
Company, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Investors, will be
delivered prior to Closing to each Investor that requests one.

Any [Major] Investor [(who is not a competitor)] will be granted access
to Company facilities and personnel during normal business hours and
with reasonable advance notification.  The Company will deliver to such
Major Investor (i) annual, quarterly, [and monthly] financial
statements, and other information as determined by the Board; (ii)
thirty days prior to the end of each fiscal year, a comprehensive
operating budget forecasting the Company’s revenues, expenses, and
cash position on a month-to-month basis for the upcoming fiscal year[;
and (iii) promptly following the end of each quarter an up-to-date
capitalization table.  A “Major Investor” means any Investor who
purchases at least $[______] of Series A Preferred.

Right to Participate Pro Rata in Future Rounds:	All [Major] Investors
shall have a pro rata right, based on their percentage equity ownership
in the Company (assuming the conversion of all outstanding Preferred
Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all options outstanding
under the Company’s stock plans), to participate in subsequent
issuances of equity securities of the Company (excluding those issuances
listed at the end of the “Anti-dilution Provisions” section of this
Term Sheet.  In addition, should any [Major] Investor choose not to
purchase its full pro rata share, the remaining [Major] Investors shall
have the right to purchase the remaining pro rata shares.

Matters Requiring Investor Director Approval:	[So long as the holders of
Series A Preferred are entitled to elect a Series A Director, the
Company will not, without Board approval, which approval must include
the affirmative vote of [one/both] of the Series A Director(s):

(i) make any loan or advance to, or own any stock or other securities
of, any subsidiary or other corporation, partnership, or other entity
unless it is wholly owned by the Company; (ii) make any loan or advance
to any person, including, any employee or director, except advances and
similar expenditures in the ordinary course of business or under the
terms of a employee stock or option plan approved by the Board of
Directors; (iii) guarantee, any indebtedness except for trade accounts
of the Company or any subsidiary arising in the ordinary course of
business; (iv) make any investment inconsistent with any investment
policy approved by the Board; (v) incur any aggregate indebtedness in
excess of $[_____] that is not already included in a Board-approved
budget, other than trade credit incurred in the ordinary course of
business; (vi) enter into or be a party to any transaction with any
director, officer or employee of the Company or any “associate” (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of any such
person [except transactions resulting in payments to or by the Company
in an amount less than $[60,000] per year], [or transactions made in the
ordinary course of business and pursuant to reasonable requirements of
the Company’s business and upon fair and reasonable terms that are
approved by a majority of the Board of Directors]; (vii) hire, fire, or
change the compensation of the executive officers, including approving
any option grants; (viii) change the principal business of the Company,
enter new lines of business, or exit the current line of business; (ix)
sell, assign, license, pledge or encumber material technology or
intellectual property, other than licenses granted in the ordinary
course of business; or (x) enter into any corporate strategic
relationship involving the payment contribution or assignment by the
Company or to the Company of assets greater than [$100,000.00].  

Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreements: 	Each Founder and key
employee will enter into a [one] year non-competition and
non-solicitation agreement in a form reasonably acceptable to the
Investors.

Non-Disclosure and Developments Agreement:	Each current and former
Founder, employee and consultant will enter into a non-disclosure and
proprietary rights assignment agreement in a form reasonably acceptable
to the Investors.  

Board Matters:	[Each Board Committee shall include at least one Series A
Director.]

The Board of Directors shall meet at least [monthly][quarterly], unless
otherwise agreed by a vote of the majority of Directors.

The Company will bind D&O insurance with a carrier and in an amount
satisfactory to the Board of Directors.  Company to enter into
Indemnification Agreement with each Series A Director [and affiliated
funds] in form acceptable to such director.  In the event the Company
merges with another entity and is not the surviving corporation, or
transfers all of its assets, proper provisions shall be made so that
successors of the Company assume the Company’s obligations with
respect to indemnification of Directors.  

Employee Stock Options:	All employee options to vest as follows:  [25%
after one year, with remaining vesting monthly over next 36 months]. 

[Immediately prior to the Series A Preferred Stock investment, [______]
shares will be added to the option pool creating an unallocated option
pool of [_______] shares.]

Key Person Insurance:	Company to acquire life insurance on Founders
[name each Founder] in an amount satisfactory to the Board.  Proceeds
payable to the Company.

RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL/CO-SALE AGREEMENT

Right of First Refusal/

Right of Co-Sale (Take-Me-Along):	Company first and Investors second (to
the extent assigned by the Board of Directors,) will have a right of
first refusal with respect to any shares of capital stock of the Company
proposed to be  transferred by Founders [and future employees holding
greater than [1]% of Company Common Stock (assuming conversion of
Preferred Stock and whether then held or subject to the exercise of
options)], with a right of oversubscription for Investors of shares
unsubscribed by the other Investors.  Before any such person may sell
Common Stock, he will give the Investors an opportunity to participate
in such sale on a basis proportionate to the amount of securities held
by the seller and those held by the participating Investors. 

VOTING AGREEMENT

Board of Directors:	At the initial Closing, the Board shall consist of
[______] members comprised of (i) [name] as [the representative
designated by [____], as the lead Investor, (ii) [name] as the
representative designated by the remaining Investors, (iii) [name] as
the representative designated by the Founders, (iv) the person then
serving as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and (v) [___]
person(s) who are not employed by the Company and who are mutually
acceptable [to the Founders and Investors][to the other directors].

[Drag Along:	Holders of Preferred Stock and the Founders [and all
future holders of greater than [1]% of Common Stock (assuming conversion
of Preferred Stock and whether then held or subject to the exercise of
options)] shall be required to enter into an agreement with the
Investors that provides that such stockholders will vote their shares in
favor of a Deemed Liquidation Event or transaction in which 50% or more
of the voting power of the Company is transferred and which is approved
by [the Board of Directors] [and the holders of ____% of the outstanding
shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-converted basis (the “Electing
Holders”)], so long as the liability of each stockholder in such
transaction is several (and not joint) and does not exceed the
stockholder's pro rata portion of any claim and the consideration to be
paid to the stockholders in such transaction will be allocated as if the
consideration were the proceeds to be distributed to the Company's
stockholders in a liquidation under the Company's then-current
Certificate of Incorporation.] 

[Sale Rights:	Upon written notice to the Company from the Electing
Holders, the Company shall initiate a process intended to result in a
sale of the Company.]

OTHER MATTERS

Founders’ Stock:

	All Founders to own stock outright subject to Company right to buyback
at cost.  Buyback right for [__]% for first [12 months] after Closing;
thereafter, right lapses in equal [monthly] increments over following
[__] months.  

[Existing Preferred Stock:	The terms set forth above for the Series [_]
Preferred Stock are subject to a review of the rights, preferences and
restrictions for the existing Preferred Stock.  Any changes necessary to
conform the existing Preferred Stock to this term sheet will be made at
the Closing.]

No Shop/Confidentiality:	The Company agrees to work in good faith
expeditiously towards a closing.  The Company and the Founders agree
that they will not, for a period of [______] weeks from the date these
terms are accepted, take any action to solicit, initiate, encourage or
assist the submission of any proposal, negotiation or offer from any
person or entity other than the Investors relating to the sale or
issuance, of any of the capital stock of the Company [or the
acquisition, sale, lease, license or other disposition of the Company or
any material part of the stock or assets of the Company] and shall
notify the Investors promptly of any inquiries by any third parties in
regards to the foregoing.  [In the event that the Company breaches this
no-shop obligation and, prior to [________], closes any of the
above-referenced transactions [without providing the Investors the
opportunity to invest on the same terms as the other parties to such
transaction], then the Company shall pay to the Investors $[_______]
upon the closing of any such transaction as liquidated damages.]  The
Company will not disclose the terms of this Term Sheet to any person
other than officers, members of the Board of Directors and the
Company’s accountants and attorneys and other potential Investors
acceptable to [_________], as lead Investor, without the written consent
of the Investors.  

Expiration:	This Term Sheet expires on [_______ __, 20__] if not
accepted by the Company by that date.  



EXECUTED this [__] day of [_________],20[___].

[Signature Blocks]

EXHIBIT A

Pre and Post-Financing Capitalization





Pre-Financing	Post-Financing

Security	# of Shares	%	# of Shares	%

Common – Founders







Common – Employee Stock Pool

	Issued

	Unissued







[Common – Warrants]







Series A Preferred 







Total









 	The choice of law governing a term sheet can be important because in
some jurisdictions a term sheet that expressly states that it is
nonbinding may nonetheless create an enforceable obligation to negotiate
the terms set forth in the term sheet in good faith.  Compare SIGA
Techs., Inc. v. PharmAthene, Inc., Case No. C.A. 2627 ( (Del. Supreme
Court May 24, 2013) (holding that where parties agreed to negotiate in
good faith in accordance with a term sheet, that obligation was
enforceable notwithstanding the fact that the term sheet itself was not
signed and contained a footer on each page stating “Non Binding
Terms”);  EQT Infrastructure Ltd. v. Smith, 861 F. Supp. 2d 220
(S.D.N.Y. 2012); Stanford Hotels Corp. v. Potomac Creek Assocs., L.P.,
18 A.3d 725 (D.C. App. 2011) with Rosenfield v. United States Trust Co.,
5 N.E. 323, 326 (Mass. 1935) (“An agreement to reach an agreement is a
contradiction in terms and imposes no obligation on the parties
thereo.”); Martin v. Martin, 326 S.W.3d 741 (Tex. App. 2010); Va.
Power Energy Mktg. v. EQT Energy, LLC, 2012 WL 2905110 (E.D. Va. July
16, 2012).  As such, because a “nonbinding” term sheet governed by
the law of a jurisdiction such as Delaware, New York or the District of
Columbia may in fact create an enforceable obligation to negotiate in
good faith to come to agreement on the terms set forth in the term
sheet, parties should give consideration to the choice of law selected
to govern the term sheet.

 	Modify this provision to account for staged investments or investments
dependent on the achievement of milestones by the Company.

 	The Charter (Certificate of Incorporation) is a public document, filed
with the  Secretary of State of the state in which the company is
incorporated, that establishes all of the rights, preferences,
privileges and restrictions of the Preferred Stock.  

 	In some cases, accrued and unpaid dividends are payable on conversion
as well as upon a liquidation event.  Most typically, however, dividends
are not paid if the preferred is converted.  Another alternative is to
give the Company the option to pay accrued and unpaid dividends in cash
or in common shares valued at fair market value.  The latter are
referred to as “PIK” (payment-in-kind) dividends.

 	See Subsection 2.3.4 of the Model Certificate of Incorporation and the
detailed explanation in related footnote 25.

 	For corporations incorporated in California, one cannot “opt out”
of the statutory requirement of a separate class vote by Common
Stockholders to authorize shares of Common Stock.  The purpose of this
provision is to "opt out" of DGL 242(b)(2).

 	Note that as a matter of background law, Section 242(b)(2) of the
Delaware General Corporation Law provides that if any proposed charter
amendment would adversely alter the rights, preferences and powers of
one series of Preferred Stock, but not similarly adversely alter the
entire class of all Preferred Stock, then the holders of that series are
entitled to a separate series vote on the amendment.

 	The board size provision may also be addressed in the Voting
Agreement; see Section 1.1 of the Model Voting Agreement.

 	The "broadest" base would include shares reserved in the option pool.

 	Note that additional exclusions are frequently negotiated, such as
issuances in connection with equipment leasing and commercial borrowing.
 See Subsections 4.4.1(d)(v)-(viii) of the Model Certificate of
Incorporation for additional exclusions.

 	The per share test ensures that the investor achieves a significant
return on investment before the Company can go public.  Also consider
allowing a non-QPO to become a QPO if an adjustment is made to the
Conversion Price for the benefit of the investor, so that the investor
does not have the power to block a public offering.

 	Alternatively, this provision could apply on a proportionate basis
(e.g., if Investor plays for ½ of pro rata share, receives ½ of
anti-dilution adjustment).

 	If the punishment for failure to participate is losing some but not
all rights of the Preferred (e.g., anything other than a forced
conversion to common), the Certificate of Incorporation will need to
have so-called “blank check preferred” provisions at least to the
extent necessary to enable the Board to issue a “shadow” class of
preferred with diminished rights in the event an investor fails to
participate.  As a drafting matter, it is far easier to simply have
(some or all of) the preferred convert to common.

 	Redemption rights allow Investors to force the Company to redeem their
shares at cost (and sometimes investors may also request a small
guaranteed rate of return, in the form of a dividend).  In practice,
redemption rights are not often used; however, they do provide a form of
exit and some possible leverage over the Company.  While it is possible
that the right to receive dividends on redemption could give rise to a
Code Section 305 “deemed dividend” problem, many tax practitioners
take the view that if the liquidation preference provisions in the
Charter are drafted to provide that, on conversion, the holder receives
the greater of its liquidation preference or its as-converted amount (as
provided in the Model Certificate of Incorporation), then there is no
Section 305 issue.

 	Due to statutory restrictions, the Company may not be legally
permitted to redeem in the very circumstances where investors most want
it (the so-called “sideways situation”).  Accordingly, and
particulary in light of the Delaware Chancery Court’s ruling in
Thoughtworks (see discussion in Model Charter), investors may seek
enforcement provisions to give their redemption rights more teeth -
e.g., the holders of a majority of the Series A Preferred shall be
entitled to elect a majority of the Company’s Board of Directors, or
shall have consent rights on Company cash expenditures, until such
amounts are paid in full.

	 Founders’ representations are controversial and may elicit
significant resistance as they are found in a minority of venture deals.
 They are more likely to appear if Founders are receiving liquidity from
the transaction, or if there is heightened concern over intellectual
property (e.g., the Company is a spin-out from an academic institution
or the Founder was formerly with another company whose business could be
deemed competitive with the Company), or in international deals. 
Founders’ representations are even less common in subsequent rounds,
where risk is viewed as significantly diminished and fairly shared by
the investors, rather than being disproportionately borne by the
Founders.  A sample set of Founders Representations is attached as an
Addendum at the end of the Model Stock Purchase Agreement.

 	The bracketed text should be deleted if this section is not designated
in the introductory paragraph as one of the sections that is binding
upon the Company regardless of whether the financing is consummated.

 	Note that Founders/management sometimes also seek limited registration
rights.

 	The Company will want the percentage to be high enough so that a
significant portion of the investor base is behind the demand. 
Companies will typically resist allowing a single investor to cause a
registration.  Experienced investors will want to ensure that less
experienced investors do not have the right to cause a demand
registration.  In some cases, different series of Preferred Stock may
request the right for that series to initiate a certain number of demand
registrations.  Companies will typically resist this due to the cost and
diversion of management resources when multiple constituencies have this
right.

 	See commentary in footnotes 23 and 24 of the Model Investors’ Rights
Agreement regarding possible extensions of lock-up period.

 	See commentary in introduction to Model Managements Rights Letter,
explaining purpose of such letter.

 	Note that Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2003 would require
repayment of any loans in full prior to the Company filing a
registration statement for an IPO.

 	Note that non-compete restrictions (other than in connection with the
sale of a business) are prohibited in California, and may not be
enforceable in other jurisdictions, as well.  In addition, some
investors do not require such agreements for fear that employees will
request additional consideration in exchange for signing a
Non-Compete/Non-Solicit (and indeed the agreement may arguably be
invalid absent such additional consideration - although having an
employee sign a non-compete contemporaneous with hiring constitutes
adequate consideration in jurisdictions where non-competes are generally
enforceable).  Others take the view that it should be up to the Board on
a case-by-case basis to determine whether any particular key employee is
required to sign such an agreement.  Non-competes typically have a one
year duration, although state law may permit up to two years.  Note also
that some states may require that a new Non-Compete be signed where
there is a material change in the employee’s duties/salary/title.

	Certain exceptions are typically negotiated, e.g., estate planning or
de minimis transfers.  Investors may also seek ROFR rights with respect
to transfers by investors, in order to be able to have some control over
the composition of the investor group.

 	See Subsection 3.3 of the Model Voting Agreement for a more detailed
list o f conditions that must be satisfied in order for the drag-along
to be invoked.

 	See Addendum to Model Voting Agreement

 	Necessary only if this is a later round of financing, and not the
initial Series A round.

 	It is unusual to provide for such “break-up” fees in connection
with a venture capital financing, but might be something to consider
where there is a substantial possibility the Company may be sold prior
to consummation of the financing (e.g., a later stage deal).

Last Updated June 2013

-  PAGE  \* MERGEFORMAT  6 -

Last Updated June 2013

